University of Development studies


#	Programme	Faculty
1	BA Development Education	Faculty of Sustainable Development Studies
2	BEd. Agricultural Science	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
3	BEd. Arabic	Faculty of Education
4	BEd. Basic Education	Faculty of Education
5	BEd. Business Studies	Faculty of Education
6	BEd. Early Childhood Care and Education	Faculty of Education
7	BEd. Family and Consumer Science	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
8	BEd. Social Science	Faculty of Education
9	BSc. Accounting	School of Business
10	BSc. Actuarial Science	Faculty of Physical Sciences
11	BSc. Agribusiness	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
12	BSc. Agricultural and Food Economics	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
13	BSc. Agriculture Technology (Agronomy)	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
14	BSc. Agriculture Technology (Animal Science)	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
15	BSc. Agriculture Technology (Biotechnology)	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
16	BSc. Agriculture Technology (Horticulture)	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
17	BSc. Agriculture Technology (Mechanization and Irrigation Technology)	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
18	BSc. Agriculture Technology (Soil Science)	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
19	BSc. Aquaculture and Fisheries Science	Faculty of Bioscience
20	BSc. Banking and Finance	School of Business
21	BSc. Biochemistry	Faculty of Bioscience
22	BSc. Biological Science	Faculty of Bioscience
23	BSc. Biotechnology and Molecular Biology	Faculty of Bioscience
24	BSc. Business Information Systems	School of Business
25	BSc. Chemical Science and Technology	Faculty of Physical Sciences
26	BSc. Community Nutrition	School of Allied Health Sciences
27	BSc. Computer Science	Faculty of Physical Sciences
28	BSc. Computing Mathematics	Faculty of Physical Sciences
29	BSc. Ecotourism and Hospitality Management	Faculty of Natural Resources and Environment
30	BSc. Engineering Physics	Faculty of Physical Sciences
31	BSc. Family and Consumer Science	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
32	BSc. Finance and Economics	School of Business
33	BSc. Food Science and Technology	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
34	BSc. Food Systems	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
35	BSc. Forensic Science	Faculty of Bioscience
36	BSc. Forest Resource Conservation and Management	Faculty of Natural Resources and Environment
37	BSc. Health Information Management	School of Public Health
38	BSc. Human Resource Management	School of Business
39	BSc. In Social Change Communication	Faculty of Communication and Media Studies
40	BSc. Marketing	School of Business
41	BSc. Mathematics	Faculty of Physical Sciences
42	BSc. Medical Imaging Technology	School of Allied Health Sciences
43	BSc. Midwifery	School of Nursing and Midwifery
44	BSc. Nurse Anaesthesia	School of Medicine
45	BSc. Nurse Practitioner	School of Nursing and Midwifery
46	BSc. Nursing	School of Nursing and Midwifery
47	BSc. Paediatric Nursing	School of Nursing and Midwifery
48	BSc. Physician Assistant	School of Medicine
49	BSc. Procurement and Supply Chain Management	School of Business
50	BSc. Public Administration	School of Business
51	BSc. Statistics	Faculty of Physical Sciences
52	Diploma In Agribusiness	
53	Diploma In Agriculture Science Education	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
54	Diploma In Agriculture Technology	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
55	Diploma In Aquaculture and Fisheries Science	Faculty of Bioscience
56	Diploma In Basic Education	Faculty of Education
57	Diploma In Biotechnology and Molecular Biology	Faculty of Bioscience
58	Diploma In Business Administration	School of Business
59	Diploma In Development Education Studies	Faculty of Sustainable Development Studies
60	Diploma In Early Childhood Care and Education	Faculty of Education
61	Diploma In Family and Consumer Science	Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Sciences
62	Diploma In Social Change Communication	Faculty of Communication and Media Studies
63	Doctor of Medical Laboratory Science	School of Allied Health Sciences
64	Doctor of Pharmacy	School of Medicine
65	MBChB (Medicine)	School of Medicine
Postgraduate Diploma Programmes
#	Programme	Faculty
1	Postgraduate Diploma In Computer Science	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
2	Postgraduate Diploma In Education	Faculty Of Education
3	Postgraduate Diploma In Mathematics	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
4	Postgraduate Diploma In Statistics	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
Postgraduate Programmes
filter table
#	Programme	Faculty
1	MA Development Education Studies	Faculty Of Sustainable Development Studies
2	MA Environment and Resource Management	
3	MA In Social Change Communication	Faculty Of Communication And Media Studies
4	Master of Public Administration	School Of Business
5	Master of Public Health	School Of Public Health
6	MBA Accounting	School Of Business
7	MBA Educational Management and Leadership	School Of Business
8	MBA Finance	School Of Business
9	MBA Health Services Administration	School Of Business
10	MBA Management Information Systems	School Of Business
11	MBA Marketing	School Of Business
12	MBA Procurement and Supply Chain Management	School Of Business
13	MCom (Options; Finance, Accounting, Procurement and Supply Chain Management, and Human Resource Management)	
14	MEd. Agricultural Science	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
15	MEd. Educational Management and Planning	Faculty Of Education
16	MEd. Health Science Education (1year Sandwich)	Faculty Of Education
17	MEd. Measurement and Evaluation	Faculty Of Education
18	MEd. Special Education	Faculty Of Education
19	MEd. Training and Development	Faculty Of Education
20	MPH Environmental Health	School Of Public Health
21	MPH Maternal and Child Health	School Of Public Health
22	MPhil Accounting	School Of Business
23	MPhil Agribusiness	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
24	MPhil Agricultural Economics	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
25	MPhil Agricultural Economics	
26	MPhil Agricultural Project Management and Policy	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
27	MPhil Agricultural Science	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
28	MPhil Agriculture Education	
29	MPhil Animal Science	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
30	MPhil Animal Science	
31	MPhil Applied Computational Physics	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
32	MPhil Biotechnology	Faculty Of Bioscience
33	MPhil Chemical Pathology	School Of Allied Health Sciences
34	MPhil Community Health and Development	School Of Public Health
35	MPhil Computer Science	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
36	MPhil Crop Science	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
37	MPhil Crop Science	
38	MPhil Development Education Studies	Faculty Of Sustainable Development Studies
39	MPhil Early Childhood Care and Education	
40	MPhil Educational Management and Planning	Faculty Of Education
41	MPhil Enterprenuership and Innovation	School Of Business
42	MPhil Environment and Resource Management	
43	MPhil Environmental Management and Sustainability	
44	MPhil Finance	School Of Business
45	MPhil Fisheries Science	Faculty Of Bioscience
46	MPhil Food Science and Technology	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
47	MPhil Health Science Education (2years Full Time Regular)	Faculty Of Education
48	MPhil Health Service Administration	School Of Business
49	MPhil Horticulture	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
50	MPhil Human Resource Management	School Of Business
51	MPhil In Social Change Communication	Faculty Of Communication And Media Studies
52	MPhil Innovation Communication	
53	MPhil Irrigation and Drainage Engineering	School Of Engineering
54	MPhil Management Information Systems	School Of Business
55	MPhil Mathematics	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
56	MPhil Mathematics	
57	MPhil Measurement and Evaluation	Faculty Of Education
58	MPhil Postharvest Technology	
59	MPhil Procurement and Supply Chain Management	School Of Business
60	MPhil Public Administration	School Of Business
61	MPhil Public Health Nutrition	School Of Public Health
62	MPhil Soil and Water Conservation and Management	
63	MPhil Soil and Water Conservation and Management	
64	MPhil Special Education	Faculty Of Education
65	MPhil Statistics	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
66	MPhil Statistics	
67	MPhil Sustainable Agricultural and Food Systems	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
68	MPhil Training and Development	Faculty Of Education
69	MSc. Accounting	
70	MSc. Accounting and Finance	School Of Business
71	MSc. Agribusiness (Sandwich)	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
72	MSc. Agricultural Economics	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
73	MSc. Agricultural Economics	
74	MSc. Agricultural Economics	
75	MSc. Agricultural Project Management	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
76	MSc. Animal Science	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
77	MSc. Animal Science	
78	MSc. Applied Chemistry	
79	MSc. Biotechnology	Faculty Of Bioscience
80	MSc. Community Disaster Resilience Studies	School Of Public Health
81	MSc. Community Health and Development	School Of Public Health
82	MSc. Computer Science	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
83	MSc. Crop Science	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
84	MSc. Crop Science	
85	MSc. Development Finance	School Of Business
86	MSc. Enterprenuership and Innovation	School Of Business
87	MSc. Environmental Management and Sustainability	
88	MSc. Food Science and Technology	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
89	MSc. Horticulture	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
90	MSc. Innovation Communication	
91	MSc. Irrigation and Drainage Engineering	School Of Engineering
92	MSc. Leadership and Organisational Development	School Of Business
93	MSc. Mathematics	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
94	MSc. Mathematics	
95	MSc. Postharvest Technology	
96	MSc. Procurement and Supply Chain Management	School Of Business
97	MSc. Public Health Nutrition	School Of Public Health
98	MSc. Soil and Water Conservation Management	
99	MSc. Statistics	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
100	MSc. Statistics	
101	PhD Agribusiness	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
102	PhD Agricultural Economics	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
103	PhD Agricultural Economics	
104	PhD Agroforestry and Dryland Conservation	Faculty Of Natural Resources And Environment
105	PhD Animal Science	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
106	PhD Animal Science	
107	PhD Applied Computational Physics	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
108	PhD Basic Education	
109	PhD Biotechnology	Faculty Of Bioscience
110	PhD Business Administration (Accounting)	School Of Business
111	PhD Business Administration (Enterpernuership and Innovation)	School Of Business
112	PhD Business Administration (Finance)	School Of Business
113	PhD Business Administration (Human Resource Management)	School Of Business
114	PhD Business Administration (Management Information Systems)	School Of Business
115	PhD Business Administration (Procurement and Supply Chain Management)	School Of Business
116	PhD Business Administration (Public Administration)	School Of Business
117	PhD Chemical Pathology	School Of Allied Health Sciences
118	PhD Computer Science	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
119	PhD Crop Science	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
120	PhD Crop Science	
121	PhD Development Finance	School Of Business
122	PhD Environmental Management and Sustainability	
123	PhD Fisheries Science	Faculty Of Bioscience
124	PhD Food Science and Technology	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
125	PhD Horticulture	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
126	PhD Innovation Communication	
127	PhD Irrigation and Drainage Engineering	School Of Engineering
128	PhD Mathematics	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
129	PhD Mathematics	
130	PhD Postharvest Technology	
131	PhD Public Health Nutrition	School Of Public Health
132	PhD Soil and Water Conservation and Management	
133	PhD Soil and Water Conservation Management	
134	PhD Statistics	Faculty Of Physical Sciences
135	PhD Sustainable Agricultural and Food Systems	Faculty Of Agriculture, Food And Consumer Sciences
136	PhD Sustainable Aquaculture	Faculty Of Bioscience


GENERAL ENTRY REQUIREMENTS
WASSCE Holders (for Degree Programmes)
WASSCE holders seeking admission into Degree programmes must have at least C6 in all their three Core and three Elective Subjects.WASSCE holders who have Grade D7 or E8 or F9 in any one of their three Core or three Elective subjects are advised not to apply for a degree programme.Candidates should therefore possess, at least, credit scores/grades in the following:
Three core subjects (English Language, Mathematics (Core) and Integrated Science / Social Studies).
Any three elective subjects in the relevant programmes.
Aggregate Score of the best six subjects (three core and three electives) must not exceed 36. However, admissions will be on competitive basis, and various programmes offered in UDS have their cut-off points much lower than aggregate 36 for WASSCE applicants.
Candidates should note that Social Studies is not an elective subject.
For candidates who read Arts and Business subjects at WASSCE, a grade in Social Studies may be used in place of the grade in Integrated Science in the calculation of their aggregates if the Social Studies grade is better than the grade in Integrated Science. This is however on condition that the candidate has at least a pass in Integrated Science.
For Science students, however, Social Studies (Core) does not replace Integrated Science (Core) in the calculation of candidates’ aggregates.
WASSCE Holders (for Diploma Programmes)
Candidates who do not meet the requirements for Degree programmes in UDS are advised to apply for any one of the Diploma programmes (Diploma in Integrated Community Development, Diploma in Integrated Business Studies, and Diploma in Development Management, all of which are offered at the Wa Campus; Diploma in Development Education is offered in Tamale Campus; Diploma in Statistics and Diploma in Computer Science are both offered in Navrongo Campus; and Diploma in Social Change Communication is offered in Nyankpala Campus)
To be admitted into a Diploma programme, three credits passes in the area of specialization (elective subjects) and at least two passes (D7 or better) in English Language and Mathematics in WASSCE is required. Any candidate without a pass in English Language and Mathematics (core) need not apply for the Diploma. It is not likely that all candidates with the minimum requirements for Diploma programmes will be admitted. Preference will be given to candidates who have good grades/credit passes.
Candidates, who have met the requirements for Degree programmes (Credits in three electives and three core subjects), but have aggregates that are not good enough may be admitted into Diploma programmes.
HND and other Diploma Holders Seeking Admission into Degree Programmes
HND and other Diploma applicants seeking admission to Degree programmes should possess at least a:
Second Class Lower or better in related programmes would be admitted into Level 200;
Third Class or Pass would be considered for admission to Level 100.
Candidates would be required to pass a selection interview to be conducted by the University. The interviews are scheduled for Friday June 19, 2020, at the Tamale Campus.
Registered Nurses
Applicants to the 3-Year BSc Nurse Practitioner programme or 2/3-Year BSc Nursing programme must be Registered Nurses with a Diploma or State Registered Nurses Certificate and at least three years working experience. Candidates without three years working experience are advised not to apply.For the BSc Nurse Anaesthesia programme, candidates should have one of the following: RGN (Diploma) with a minimum of 3 years post-registration working experience, RGN (BSc Nursing) with 2 years’ post-registration working experience and Advanced Diploma in Nurse Anaesthesia with 2 years working experience
Calculation of Aggregates
For the avoidance of doubt, the University for Development Studies has adopted   the WASSCE system for computation of final aggregates. Equivalences are as follows:
WASSCE	Points
A1	1
B2	2
B3	3
C4	4
C5	5
C6	6



CUT-OFF POINTS FOR HEALTH SCIENCE PROGRAMMES (2023/2024 ACADEMIC YEAR)
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE:

MBCHB Agg. 9
 

SCHOOL OF PHARMACY:

DOCTOR OF PHARMACY Agg. 12
DOCTOR OF PHARMACY (FEE PAYING) Agg. 18
 

SCHOOL OF NURSING AND MIDWIFERY:

BSC NURSING

Category	Aggregate Cut-Off Point
Science Students
Male	9
Female	10
Non-Science Students
Male	7
Female	8
 

BSC MIDWIFERY

Category	Aggregate Cut-Off Point
Science Students
Male	9
Female	10
Non-Science Students
Male	7
Female	8
 

SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH:

BSc HEALTH INFORMATION MANAGEMENT Agg. 18
 

SCHOOL OF ALLIED HEALTH SCIENCES (SAHS):

DOCTOR OF MEDICAL LABORATORY SCIENCES Agg. 12
BSc MEDICAL IMAGING TECHNOLOGY
Regular Students: Agg. 11
Fee Paying Students: Agg. 11 - 15
BSc COMMUNITY NUTRITION Agg. 18
BSc DIETETICS Agg. 16


Application forms for admission to Diploma and Undergraduate programmes in the University for Development Studies (UDS) will be available online from Friday, January 16, 2026 at www.admissions.uds.edu.gh.

The following programmes are currently offered by the University

REGULAR/ NON-REGULAR PROGRAMMES 

A.   TAMALE CAMPUS

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE (SOM)

1.   Admission to 6-Year Medicine (MBChB) Programme

Entry requirements

Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations or West Africa Senior School Certificate Examinations (SSSCE/WASSCE) with their equivalences such as:
GCE (Cambridge)-‘A’ levels
IGCSE (Cambridge)-‘A’ Levels
Any other external qualifications, which have equivalences to the SSSCE/WASSCE as determined by GTEC.
Prospective candidates with WASSCE results of aggregate nine (09) or better will be shortlisted for an entrance examination and interview. The aggregate is calculated base on three (3) Core Subjects: English, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science and three (3) Elective Subjects:  Chemistry, Biology, Physics or Elective Mathematics. 
AN EXAMINATION/INTERVIEW FEE OF THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY GHANA CEDIS (GHC 350.00) WILL BE CHARGED. 
Candidates must satisfy the general requirements for admission under “A” Level of the G.C.E. or its equivalences in Science (Physics, Chemistry and Biology/Mathematics) with a maximum aggregate of Nine (09). In addition, candidates must have at least credit passes (Grade 6 or better) in five (5) GCE Ordinary level subjects including English Language, Mathematics, Additional Mathematics and General Science plus Additional Science or any two of the individual science subjects: Physics, Chemistry and Biology.
All undergraduates shall enter at Level 100 (first year) of the programme.

2.   Graduate Entry Medical Programme (GEMP)

Entry Requirements
Applicants MUST have a First Degree (Minimum of 2nd Class Lower) in the following: Science-based courses.

Biological Sciences
Biochemistry
Chemistry
Physician Assistantship (Medical/Anaesthesia/Dental)
Pharmacy
Nursing/Midwifery
Nutrition
Dietetics 
Food Science
Biomedical Engineering
Laboratory Sciences
Physiotherapy
Radiography
NB: Graduates whose courses are not listed should not apply.
Candidates should have obtained a credit WASSCE/SSSCE grade in three (3) core and three (3) Elective science subjects which must be Biology and Chemistry.
There should be evidence of having completed National Service (if applicable).

Nature of Programme and Duration

The Graduate Entry Medical Programme is an integrated 4 ½ - year Medical Programme which leads to the award of MBChB Degree.  The Programme will begin in September 2026 and will be run on FULL-TIME.
Eligible applicants are to complete the application forms online.  In addition, they should submit the following documents to Academic Affairs Office, UDS Central Administration, Tamale. Room # 53 Two recent endorsed passport-sized photograph, Two endorsed Recommendation Letters from 2 Referees from a relevant Academic Institution, Copy of Certificates (SHS & Degree), Original Transcript, a copy of recent past six (6) months bank statement and other financial instruments as proof of ability to pay including addresses and Letters of support from Sponsor(s) undertaking to pay all fees and  detailed information of present work status, a Proof of online registration and NSS Certificates where applicable.
NB:  Documents submitted will not be returned.

Access Course
A shortlist of suitable applicants will be contacted by the university. Shortlisted applicants must go through a four-week access course at a fee of Two Thousand Ghana Cedis (GH¢ 2000). A written examination will be conducted at the end of the access course, and only those who make the pass mark will be invited for oral interview. 
The Access Course covers English Language, Quantitative Methods, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Cellular and Molecular Biology, Anatomy, Pharmacology and Physiology.
The course will take place at the University for Development Studies-School of Medicine, Tamale Campus of UDS from 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. each day from Monday to Friday for four weeks.
Shortlisted eligible applicants will be admitted into the Programme subject to passing an Entrance Examination and Oral Interview.

For further information please contact the Academic Affairs Office/GEMP Secretariat School of Medicine
Monday - Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.

Please note, deadline for submission of applications is April 2nd, 2026.


3.   Admission requirement to 2-year BSc Physician Assistant Anaesthesia programme 

Admission is open to both national and international applicants.
To be admitted into the programme leading to the award of a BSc. Physician Assistant Anaesthesia, a candidate must have any of the following:
Diploma in Registered General Nursing (RGN)
Diploma in Psychiatry Nursing 
Diploma in Nurse Anaesthesia
BSc in Nursing
BSc Psychiatry Nursing
BSc Midwifery 
Applicants must have post-registration working experience in an accredited health facility.
The programme does not accept straight-entry applications from Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations (SSSCE), West African Senior School Certificate Examinations (WASSCE) or equivalences.
All undergraduates shall enter at Level 300 of the programme.
Interviews for all candidates will be scheduled in July 2026 at the UDS, Tamale Campus.
An interview fee will be charged.
At the interview, all applicants will be required to show the original and present photocopy of the following documents:
School/College/University Certificates
Examinations Results slips/Transcripts
Birth certificate/ Ghana Card
Passport (for international applicants)
Study leave approval letter
English proficiency (international applicants from non-English-speaking countries)
SCHOOL OF ALLIED HEALTH SCIENCS

DEPARTMENT OF NUTRITIONAL SCIENCES

4-Year Bsc Community Nutrition Degree Programme

1.   Brief description of programme
The BSc Community Nutrition is a science-based 4-year degree programme. The aim of the BSc Community Nutrition programme is to produce graduates with sound scientific knowledge and requisite skills in Human Nutrition as well as skills in working with communities to address their nutritional problems. The students take 64 courses (168 credits) over the course of the 4-year period including a supervised research project. The graduates will function mainly in health promotion roles in community/population and clinical settings.

2.   Qualification/prerequisites for the programme 
WASSCE Applicants: Applicants seeking admission into the BSc Community Nutrition programme must have credit passes (A1 – C6) in three (3) core subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science and credit passes in three (3) elective subjects: Biology, Chemistry and Physics or Mathematics. Applicants are expected to pass entrance examination and interview to be admitted.

SSSCE Applicants: Applicants seeking admission into the BSc Community Nutrition programme must have credit passes (A – D) in three (3) core subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science and credit passes in three (3) elective subjects: Biology, Chemistry and Physics or Mathematics. Applicants are expected to pass entrance examination and interview to be admitted.

3.   Cut-off points for admission
Admission for the BSc Community Nutrition programme is very competitive. Aggregate scores of 14 or less for WASSCE applicants and 12 or less for SSSCE applicants are required for admission. Home Economics applicants with aggregate 10 will be considered for admission if they did Food and Nutrition and Biology or Chemistry as part of their elective subjects.

4.   Top-up Applicants
Applicants must hold a diploma in Nutrition or Dietetics or Food Science from an accredited, relevant, science-based institution. Work experience in any nutrition-related field will be an advantage. All applicants must pass a competitive interview to be conducted by the Department of Nutritional Sciences. Applicants would be considered for entry at level 200 or 300 depending on the class of their diploma and performance in the admission interview. Successful top-up applicants will be admitted as fee-paying students.

5.   Mature Applicants
Applicants must be 25 years or above (must show proof). SSSCE/WASSCE holders must have passes in at least three (3) core subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science and passes in at least two (2) elective subjects: Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Mathematics. Mature applicants will be expected to pass an entrance examination and interview. Successful mature applicants will be admitted as fee-paying students into level 100.

DEPARTMENT OF DIETETICS

1.   Brief description of programme
The BSc Dietetics programme is a 4-year science-based programme. The aim of this programme is to produce competent dietetics professionals capable of developing solutions to diet and nutrition-related problems and who can practice as entry-level dietitians. The students take 67 courses (173 credits) over the course of the 4-year period including supervised clinical practicum and research project. The graduates will function mainly as Dietitians.

2.   Qualification/prerequisites for the programme  
WASSCE Applicants: Applicants seeking admission into the BSc Dietetics programme must have credit passes (A1 – C6) in three (3) core subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science and credit passes in three (3) elective subjects: Biology, Chemistry and Physics or Mathematics. Applicants are expected to pass entrance examination and interview to be admitted.


SSSCE Applicants: This is a science-based programme. Applicants seeking admission into the BSc Dietetics programme must have credit passes (A – D) in three (3) core subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science and credit passes in three (3) elective subjects: Biology, Chemistry and Physics or Mathematics. Applicants are expected to pass entrance examination and interview to be admitted.

Cut-off points for admission
Admission for the BSc Dietetics programme is very competitive. Aggregate scores of 14 or less for WASSCE applicants and 12 or less for SSSCE applicants are required for admission.  Home Economics applicants with aggregate 9 will be considered for admission if they did Food and Nutrition and Biology or Chemistry as part of their elective subjects.

Top-up Applicants: Applicants must hold diploma in Dietetics or Nutrition or Food Science or Nursing from an accredited, relevant, science-based institution. Besides Diploma in Dietetics applicants all other applicants must have studied Science at the Senior High School level. Work experience in any dietetics-related field will be an advantage. All applicants must pass a competitive interview to be conducted by the Department of Dietetics. Applicants will be considered for entry at level 200 or 300 depending on the class of their diploma and performance in the admission interview. Successful top-up applicants will be admitted as fee-paying students.

Mature Applicants: Applicants must be 25 years or above (show proof). SSSCE/WASSCE holders must have passes in at least three (3) core subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science and passes in at least two (2) elective subjects i.e., any two of Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Mathematics. All mature applicants will be expected to pass an entrance examination and interview. Successful mature applicants will be admitted as fee-paying students into level 100.

DEPARTMENT OF MEDICAL IMAGING

1.   Brief description of the programme
Medical Imaging Technology (MIT) describes a group techniques and processes of creating visual representations of the interior of the human body for purposes of clinical analysis, diagnosis, medical intervention, and evaluation of organ or tissue structure and function. MIT is mostly non-invasive but requires basic understanding of the theory, science and technologies involved, as well as anatomy and physiology of the human body. MIT incorporates the following imaging modalities: X-ray radiography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), Medical Ultrasonography, Computed Tomography (CT), Fluoroscopy, Positron Emission Tomography (PET), and Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT). 

The BSc Medical Imaging Technology programme focuses on providing practical, clinical skill-set to students to be proficient at both the applications of imaging technologies and patient care, in a professional manner. Other names for the programme as used in other institutions include Diagnostic Imaging, Diagnostic Radiography, Radiography, Radiologic Technology and Medical Imaging. The title of the programme at UDS reflects in its content which highlights training of students in the efficient use of imaging technology for clinical evaluation of patients toward medical diagnosis.     

2.   Qualification/prerequisites for the programme (this should include the course or subject combination required for each programme)
To qualify for the programme at any entry level, an applicant MUST be from a GENERAL SCIENCE background and MUST have passes in the following subject combination at the pre-university education level: Physics, Biology, and Chemistry (or Elective Mathematics, whichever is better). Other Science-related programmes at WASSCE level may be considered as long as such applicants have passes in Physics and Biology. Any candidate without passes (A1 to C6) in Physics and Biology together does not qualify to apply for the BSc MIT programme.

Minimum qualifications for admission at various entry levels into the programme include the following:

WASSCE Candidates
Applicants must have credit passes (A1-C6) in three core subjects: English Language, Core Mathematics, and Integrated Science plus three elective subjects: Biology, Physics and Chemistry (or Mathematics).


SSCE Candidates
Applicants must have passes (A-D) in three core subjects: English Language, Core Mathematics, and Integrated Science plus three elective subjects: Biology, Physics and Chemistry (or Mathematics).
Candidates with a combination of WASSCE and SSSCE results will be treated on a case-by-case basis. Applicants with WASSCE and/or SSSCE results will be admitted into year one of the programme after passing an assessment examination and interview.


Advanced Level Certificate Candidates
GCE applicants must have 5 credits at the Ordinary Level Examination or equivalent including English Language, Mathematics and either (i) Physics, Chemistry and Biology or (ii) Agricultural Science, General Science and any other subject. In addition, applicants must obtain three passes at the GCE Advanced Level or equivalent in Biology, Physics and Chemistry or Mathematics.


Mature Candidates
Mature applicants could be any one of the following categories:


GCE/WASSCE/SSSCE Candidates
This category of applicants must have attained the age of 25 years or above, with credits in five GCE "O" Level science-based subjects or credit passes (A1-C6)/passes (A-D) in six WASSCE/SSSCE subjects including English Language, Mathematics and General Science, and must have three years relevant work experience in addition to passing an aptitude test and/or an interview. Successful applicants will be admitted to first year of the programme.


Allied Health Professionals
This category of applicants includes Radiographers and Radiologic Technicians with Diploma and/or HND in Radiography or Diagnostic Imaging (or Radiologic Technology). Other paramedics and nurses with State Registered Nurse (SRN), Registered Mental Nurse (RMN) or Registered General Nurse (RGN) Certificates will also be considered. 

All applicants in this category must have at least six WASSCE/SSSCE passes (A1-C6/A-D) in three science-based elective (Biology, Physics and Chemistry or Elective Mathematics) and three core (English Language, Core Mathematics and General Science) subjects. Applicants must have at least 3 years radiography/clinical work experience and must pass an aptitude test and/or an interview. Successful applicants will be admitted into year 3 or 2 of the programme, depending on whether they belong to the radiography or other allied health professions category, respectively.
            
Graduate Entry and Transfers
Graduates of Allied Disciplines/Bachelor’s in Basic Sciences such as Physics, Mathematics, Computer Science, Health Information Systems, Bioinformatics, Biometrics, etc. with good first degree (Second Class Lower or better) will be admitted into Year 2 of the programme after passing an aptitude test and/or an interview.

Foreign Candidates
Applicants under this category may hold any of the following qualifications: International Baccalaureate (IB), GCE (Cambridge) – ‘O’ and ‘A’ Levels, IGSCE (Cambridge) – ‘O’ and ‘A’ Levels, American High School Grade – Grades 12 and 13 examinations. Entry requirements for applicants with any of these credentials shall be GTEC equivalences of the WASSCE grades in the subjects listed under the WASSCE Candidates section. Evidence of English Language proficiency will be required in the case of applicants from non-English speaking countries.

Cut off point for the programme
Students will be admitted into the following categories with the specified cut-off aggregates:
WASSCE Regular – aggregates 6-11
WASSCE Ghanaian Fee-Paying – aggregates 12-16
Ghanaian Fee-Paying (Top-Up) – Second Class Lower or Better at Diploma, HND or Degree level

DEPARTMENT OF BIOMEDICAL LABORATORY SCIENCES

Programme: Doctor of Medical Laboratory Sciences (MLS.D)

Brief Description Programme
The Doctor of Medical Laboratory Science is a 6-year programme, which offers an inter-disciplinary approach to the study of laboratory science and prepares students to take up roles as Medical Laboratory Scientist in various organizations. 

Admission / Entry Requirement
Applicants to the 6-Year Doctor of Medical Laboratory Science (MLS.D) degree must have either 
a) Credit in the THREE WASSCE/SSCE core subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science plus credits in THREE WASSCE electives: Biology, Chemistry and Physics or Mathematics). SSSCE APPLICANTS WITH AGGREGATE 12 OR BETTER shall enter year One. All prospective applicants are expected to pass entrance examination and interview to be admitted.

Top-Up Programme for 4 -Years into MLS.D (Fee Paying only, Weekend option available)
b) Graduates of allied disciplines such as Biochemistry, Anatomy, Physiology, Microbiology, etc. with a good first degree, Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT) Diploma may enter the Programme in Year THREE after passing an assessment examination and interview OR 
c)Holders of HND in Science Laboratory Technology, with at least 6 WASSCE/SSCE passes as in a) above may enter the Programme in Year TWO or THREE after passing an assessment examination and interview. OR
Top-Up Programme for 2-Years into MLS.D (Fee Paying only, Weekend option available)

d)Graduates with Bachelor of Medical Laboratory Science may enter the Programme in Year 5 (2 years duration) after passing an assessment examination and interview.

Cut off point for the programme
Students will be admitted into the following categories with the specified cut-off aggregates:

WASSCE Regular – aggregates 6-12
Ghanaian Fee-Paying (Top-Up) (Must have Second Class Upper or Better at Diploma, HND or Degree level
SCHOOL OF NURSING AND MIDWIFERY

A. DEPARTMENT OF PAEDIATRIC NURSING

Description	This is a two-year (2) BSc. Paediatric Nursing Program that
equips nurses with the requisite knowledge, skills and attitude to
care for neonates, infants, older children, adolescents and their
families in various health care settings.
Prospects	
Graduates of the program will obtain a Registered Paediatric Nursing certificate from the Nursing and Midwifery Council of Ghana (N&MC) and be licensed to practice as paediatric nurses.
Graduates will also be eligible to take on specialization courses with Ghana College of Nurses and Midwives (GCNM).
Graduates will also be eligible for MPhil Paediatric Nursing.
Duration of Study	Two (2) years
Entry Level	Level 300
Entry Requirements	
Be a registered General Nurse or Registered Midwife with a Diploma
Be in good standing with the Nursing and Midwifery Council of Ghana (N&MC)
Have a minimum of Two (2) years working experience
Be eligible for study leave
Note: 
Foreign applicants with diploma may be considered for admission
International applicants must show evidence of registration with their home Professional Regulatory Bodies. 
Applicants from non-English speaking countries must also show evidence of English Language proficiency.
Closing date for application: May 31, 2026.

 

B.   BSC NURSE PRACTITIONER

Description	This programme trains frontline Primary care Nurse Practitioners who are equipped with advanced knowledge, skills, and attitudes to provide comprehensive world-class healthcare. Nurse practitioners are trained with the key role of assessing, diagnosing, treating patients with acute and chronic conditions, and referring patients with complex conditions from the primary level of care to secondary level facilities for further assessment and management.
Prospects	 
Duration of Study	Three (3) years
Entry Level	Level 200
Entry Requirements	
Registered General Nurse
Registered Mental Health Nurse
Registered Community Health Nurse
Minimum of 2 years working experience
Must be in good standing with the Nursing and Midwifery Council of Ghana (N&MC)
Note: 
Foreign applicants with diploma may be considered for admission
International applicants must show evidence of registration with their home Professional Regulatory Bodies. 
Applicants from non-English speaking countries must also show evidence of English Language proficiency.
Closing date for application: May 31, 2026.

 

C.   BSC NURSING TOP-UP

Description	Applicants to the 2-year Bachelor of Science (BSc) in General Nursing Programme must be Registered Nurses with a Diploma
Prospects	 
Duration of Study	Two (2) years
Entry Level	Level 300
Entry Requirements	
Registered General Nurse
Candidates must have at least three (3) years post registration work experience.
Must be in good standing with the Nursing and Midwifery Council of Ghana (N&MC).
Note:
Foreign applicants with diploma may be considered for admission
International applicants must show evidence of registration with their home Professional Regulatory Bodies. 
Applicants from non-English speaking countries must also show evidence of English Language proficiency.
Closing date for application: May 31, 2026.

 

C.   BSC MIDWIFIREY TOP-UP

Description	Applicants to the 2-year Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Midwifery Programme must be Registered Midwives with Diploma and in good standing with the Nursing and Midwifery Council of Ghana.
Prospects	 
Duration of Study	Two (2) years
Entry Level	Level 300
Entry Requirements	
Registered General Nurse (RGN)
Registered Midwife (RM)
Candidates must have at least three (3) years post registration work experience.
Note: 
Foreign applicants with diploma may be considered for admission
International applicants must show evidence of registration with their home Professional Regulatory Bodies. 
Applicants from non-English speaking countries must also show evidence of English Language proficiency.
Closing date for application: May 31, 2026.

 

C.   BSC PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING TOP-UP

Description	This is a two-year (2) BSc. Public Health Nursing Program that equips nurses with the requisite knowledge, skills and attitude to deliver preventive health services to families in various health care settings for the promotion of health and prevention of diseases.
Prospects	 
Duration of Study	Two (2) years
Entry Level	Level 300
Entry Requirements	
Registered Community Nursing (RCN)/Registered Public Health Nursing (PHN) with Diploma
Registered General Nursing (RGN) with Diploma
Registered Midwifery (RM) with Diploma
Registered Community Psychiatry Nursing (RCPN) with Diploma
Registered Mental Health Nursing (RMN) with Diploma
Registered Pediatric Nursing (PN) with Diploma
Must have at least 2-3 years post-graduation work experience
Note: 
Foreign applicants with above qualifications may be considered for admission
International applicants must show evidence of registration with their home Professional Regulatory Bodies. 
Applicants from non-English speaking countries must also show evidence of English Language proficiency.
Closing date for application: May 31, 2026.

 

GENERIC CATEGORY (WASSCE)

AGGREGATE CUT-OFF POINT/SUBJECT COMBINATION FOR WASSCE APPLICANTS

PROGRAMMES- BSC NURSING, BSC MIDWIFERY AND BSC PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING

1. AGGREGATE CUT-OFF POINTS

Science Students	14
Non-Science Students	12
 

2. SUBJECT COMBINATION

Three Core (compulsory) Subjects	Three Elective Subjects
(Any three from the following groupings)
 	Science
English Language
Mathematics 
Integrated Science
NB: Social studies is not accepted as a core subject and therefore not used in calculating the aggregate score

Physics
Chemistry
Biology
Elective mathematics
 	Non Sciences
 	
History
Geography
Economics
Government
Literature in English
French
Biology
Physics
Chemistry  
Management in living
Food and nutrition
Christian religion
Islamic religion
General agricultural science
Any Ghanaian Language (Dagbani, Twi Fante, etc.)
NB: Only female applicants are eligible to apply for the BSc. Midwifery programme.

 

ACCESS PROGRAMME FOR 2026/2027 ACADEMIC YEAR 

The School of Nursing and Midwifery, UDS, will run an Access Programme for holders of Nurse Assistant Clinical (NAC) and Nurse Assistants Preventive (NAP). The applicants can choose among any of our three programmes which include: BSc Nursing, BSc Midwifery and BSc Public Health Nursing. The Access Programme will consist of six modules that run for eight weeks, including a period for revision. At the end of the programme, an examination and interview will be conducted and successful candidates will be admitted into Level 100 or 200 based on the qualifications and programme of their choice. 

Available Programmes 

BSc Nursing
BSc Midwifery
BSc Public Health Nursing
Entry Requirements

Be a holder of Nurse Assistant Clinical (NAC) or Nurse Assistant Preventive (NAP) 
Be Licensed by the Nursing and Midwifery Council of Ghana with a valid AIN
Have at least 3 years of work experience
Obtain study leave from the current employer
Mode of Delivery

A blended mode of delivery consisting of a combination of face-to-face and online will be employed for the access programme. 
Admitted students will be expected to pursue a regular programme on the Dungu Campus, Tamale. 
Level of Entry
All applications should take of the following:

BSc. Nursing is available for only NAC holders and the level of entry is Level 200.
BSc. Midwifery is available for both NAC and NAP holders. They are both admitted into Level 100.
BSc. Public Health Nursing is available for both NAC and NAP holders. NAP holders are admitted into Level 200 and NAC holders are admitted into Level 100.
NB: Only female applicants are eligible to apply for the BSc. Midwifery programme.
CLOSING DATE FOR APPLICATION: APRIL 30, 2026.

 

POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMME 2026/2027 ACADEMIC YEAR

Master of Philosophy (MPhil) in Nursing
Master of Science (MSc) in Nursing
Duration
Master of Philosophy (MPhil) in Nursing: Two years
Master of Science (MSc) Nursing: One year

Mode of Delivery
Regular

Admission Requirements

1. Domestic applicants

To qualify for admission into the MPhil or MSc in Nursing programme, the applicant must meet the following requirements:

The applicant must have a good first degree in a nursing or midwifery program, preferably a second-class lower or better from any accredited university. 
Domestic applicants with certificates obtained from a foreign country must have their certificates validated and certified by the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission (GTEC).
Applicants must have at least one year of work experience as a professional nurse/midwife after national service. 
The applicant must also be in good standing with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (N&MC) of Ghana.
2. Foreign Applicants

Foreign applicants with a good first degree in nursing or midwifery, preferably a second-class lower or better at any accredited university may be considered for admission. 
All foreign applicants must have their certificates validated and certified by the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission (GTEC).
International applicants must show evidence of registration with their home Professional Regulatory Bodies. 
Applicants from non-English speaking countries must also show evidence of English Language proficiency.
Closing date for application: May 31, 2026.

Contact for enquiries
SoNM Office Line: 0372094289
Programme Coordinator: 0209318103
Email: sonm@uds.edu.gh

 

SCHOOL OF PHARMACY AND PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES

6-Year Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharmd) Programme

Category A: Undergraduate entry

The following qualifications are accepted for entry:

Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations or West Africa Senior School Certificate Examinations (SSSCE/WASSCE) with three credit passes in English Language, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science, plus credit passes in two elective courses including Chemistry and Biology and any one of Physics or Elective Mathematics. 
Equivalences of the SSSCE/WASSCE such as:
GCE (Cambridge)- ‘A’ levels
IGCSE (Cambridge)- ‘A’ Levels
Baccalaureate (French)
International Baccalaureate (IB)
American High School Grade-Grade 12 and 13 examinations
Any other external qualifications, which have equivalences to the SSSCE/WASSCE as determined by the National Accreditation Board.
Higher National Diploma in Dispensing Technology – with a minimum of a second-class upper division
Category B: Graduate entry

Graduates with a good first degree in allied disciplines (eg. Anatomy, Community Nutrition, Microbiology, Nursing, Physiology, Pharmacology and Toxicology)

Short-listed applicants would be invited to take a written entry examination and an interview.
Applicants must obtain at least 50% in both the assessment examinations and interviews to be admitted into the programme.
 

SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY (SOD)

Brief Description of the Bachelor of Dental Surgery Programme
The School of Dentistry, established in 2023 and accredited by the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission (GTEC) and the Medical and Dental Council in 2024, offers a six-year Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) degree programme.
Being the first of its kind in Northern Ghana, the school is committed to its mission of becoming a premier community-based institution that provides excellent dental care to the people of Northern Ghana and beyond. Through the training of skilled graduates, the school aims to address the inequitable distribution of dentists across the country.
During the pre-clinical years, dental students will pursue a BSc in Human Biology at the School of Medicine (SoM) of the University for Development Studies. This foundational training in the Basic Medical Sciences prepares students for the clinical phase of the BDS programme at the School of Dentistry. The School of Dentistry currently comprises the following departments:

Department of Adult Oral Health
Department of Basic and Diagnostic Oral Health Sciences
Department of Child Oral Health and Orthodontics
Department of Community and Preventive Dentistry
Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Sciences
Entry Requirements

Qualifications
Prospective students must meet the following criteria for admission:

Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) or West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE):
Applicants must have studied General Science or equivalent qualifications such as:
GCE (Cambridge) – 'A' Levels
IGCSE (Cambridge) – 'A' Levels
Other external qualifications deemed equivalent by GTEC.
Candidates must have passes in six subjects (3 core and 3 electives) with an aggregate score of 9 or better.
Core subjects: English, Mathematics, Integrated Science.
Electives: Chemistry, Physics, Biology, or Elective Mathematics.
General Certificate of Education (GCE) ‘A’ Level Applicants:
Candidates must have an aggregate score of 9 or better in science subjects (Physics, Chemistry, and Biology/Mathematics).
At least credit passes (Grade 6 or better) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects, including English Language, Mathematics, Additional Mathematics, and General Science, plus Additional Science or two individual science subjects (Physics, Chemistry, Biology).
Level of Entry:
All undergraduates will commence the programme at Level 100 (first year).

NB:
Cut-Off Point: Aggregate 9 is required for admission to the BDS programme
Entrance Examination/Interview:

Applicants with aggregate 6-9 will be shortlisted for an entrance examination and interview.
 

SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH

BSc. Public Health (with options in Health Promotion, Environmental Health, and Occupational Health & Safety) 

The general requirements for admission to first-degree programmes are three (3) credit passes in three core subjects and three (3) credit passes in three relevant elective subjects. 

SSSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A - D) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects. 
WASSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A1 –C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects. 
GBCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A - D) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects. 
Entry Levels 

4-Year BPH. Bachelor of Public Health Programme (with options in Health Promotion, Environmental Health, and Occupational Health & Safety) – This is for holders of the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE), West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), and General Business Certificate Examination (GBCE) with passes as indicated above. 
3 Year BPH. Bachelor of Public Health Programme (with options in Health Promotion, Environmental Health, and Occupational Health & Safety) – This is for holders of Certificates in Health-related programmes (including Nursing, Midwifery, Environmental Health, Nutrition, Disease Control, Health Promotion, Health Information Management etc.) with six (6) credit passes in WASSCE/SSSCE/GBCE as indicated above and at least a pass in the licensure examination. Prospective applicants must have at least 3 years of working experience as Health professionals.  
Those who have certificates but do not have six credit passes in WASSCE/SSCE/GBCE as indicated have the opportunity to be admitted through an access upgrade. To be qualified for admission through the access upgrade prospective applicants must have been invited for a 2-month access course (comprising of English, Mathematics, Integrated Science, Physics, Chemistry, and Biology). 
2 Year BPH. Bachelor of Public Health Programme (with options in Health Promotion, Environmental Health, and Occupational Health & Safety) – This is for holders of Diplomas in Health-related programmes (including Nursing, Midwifery, Environmental Health, Nutrition, Disease Control etc.) with at least a pass in the licensure examination. Prospective applicants must have at least 3 years of working experience as Health professionals. There are two options for the top-up programmes; They include top-up regular and sandwich. The regular students are supposed to attend lectures on campus throughout their study while the sandwich students receive tuition via virtual means and only come to campus for revision and exams. 
Foreign applicants:  

This category of applicants refers to applicants who are from nations other than Ghana and may or may not be residents of Ghana with foreign certificates.  
They may be admitted based on similar qualifications and knowledge in any Public Health discipline equivalent to what prevails in Ghana and are subjected to approval by the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission. 
BSc. Health Information Management

Regular Program
4-Year BSc (Health Information Management): This is a science-based programme. For WASSCE holders, candidates with business subjects should reflect carefully before applying for this programme. Pure Science, Agricultural Science, Arts, or Home Economics candidates are eligible to apply. Candidates should possess credit passes from A1 to C6 in six (6) subjects comprising three (3) core subjects (English Language, Core Mathematics, and Integrated Science) and three (3) elective subjects (Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Economics, Geography, Government, Accounting, Management, General Arts, Animal Husbandry, General Agriculture, Information Communication Technology, Management in Living and Food & Nutrition). For SSSCE holders, candidates should possess a General Science background with credit passes from A to D in six (6) subjects comprising three (3) core subjects (English Language, Mathematics, and Integrated Science) and three Electives (Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Economics, and Geography).

Post Basic Entry (Fee Paying option)
3-Year BSc (Health Information Management): For Professional Certificate holders (Medical Records, Community Health, Health Promotion, Health Information Management, Biostatistics, and Disease Control & Surveillance) from a Ministry of Health Training Institution(s) whose certificates are recognized by the UDS will be enrolled into the 4-Year BSc Health Information Management Programme at Level 200. Candidates must have at least a PASS in the Certificate Programme. Candidates should also have at least three (3) years of relevant work experience. Candidates will be enrolled after successfully passing an assessment and interview at the University for Development Studies. 

2-Year BSc (Health Information Management): For Professional Diploma Certificate holders (Medical Records, Community Health, Health Promotion, Health Information Management, Biostatistics, Information Communication Technology, Computer Science, and Disease Control & Surveillance) from a Ministry of Health Training Institution(s) whose Diplomas are recognized by the UDS will be enrolled into the 4-Year BSc Health Information Management Programme at Level 300. Candidates must have at least a PASS in the Diploma Programme. Candidates should also have at least three (3) years of relevant work experience. Candidates will be enrolled after successfully passing an assessment and interview at the University for Development Studies. 
 

FACULTY OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STUDIES 

A.   DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND LAND ADMINISTRATION

1.   BSC LAND ADMINISTRATION

The BSc. Land Administration programme is a practical and multidisciplinary degree programme designed to educate and equip students with the skills to understand and analyse the role and use of land, get acquainted with the real estate environment within an economy; and to appreciate the way in which evidence-based solutions can be used to determine and deliver inclusive land rights for poverty reduction. The programme aims to provide students with the requisite knowledge, skills and competencies to work in the land and real property sectors. Students will acquire knowledge across a range of disciplines in land, real estate, environment, and development and to apply this knowledge to facilitate sustainable administration and management of land resources.

Aims and objectives

To equip students with the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to facilitate the conduct of applied research to meet the needs of a dynamic and complex land sector at all levels.
To equip students with the requisite tools, techniques and processes involved in the determination and delivery of inclusive land rights and socio-economic development in a developing country context.
To train professionals who will contribute to building effective and equitable land delivery system, and appreciate the relationship between land administration and sustainable development.
Admission requirement

Candidates with WASSCE
Applicants must have passes in three core subjects (A1-C6) at the Senior High School level including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science/Core Science. They must also have passes in three elective subjects including Economics, Geography and a third subject, preferably, Mathematics, French, Government, History, Accounting, Business Mathematics and Principles of Costing, General Knowledge in Art, Technical Drawing, and Religious Studies.

Candidates with SSCE    
Applicants must have passes in three core subjects (A-D) at the Senior Secondary School level including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science/Core Science. They must also have passes in three elective subjects including Economics, Geography and a third subject, preferably, Mathematics, French, Government, History, Accounting, Business Mathematics and Principles of Costing, General Knowledge in Art, Technical Drawing, and Religious Studies.

Candidates with GCE O and A Level:
Applicants must have credit, (grade 1 – 6) in five subjects at GCE O Level including English Language and Mathematics; plus, three passes, (grade A – E) with at least a grade ‘D’ in one of the subjects at GCE A Level. Candidates must also have passes in three elective subjects including Economics and Geography, and a third subject, preferably, Mathematics, French, Government, History, Accounting, and Religious Studies.

Diploma holders
Applicants with Diploma or HND certificates in relevant fields (e.g. Settlement Studies, Real Estate, Building Technology, planning etc.) with at least a pass or its equivalent can apply for placement at level 200. Diploma holders with distinction and HND applicants with first class and second-class upper division will all be placed at level 200 in line with the University’s placement policy. 

Matured applicants 
Matured applicants must have attained 25 years of age at the time of application. Such candidates must sit and pass written and oral entrance examinations to be conducted by the University. Relevant work experience in the fields of land administration, planning, development work, etc. will be an added advantage to prospective applicants. In addition, mature applicants must have credits in English Language and Mathematics, and credit in any two of the following elective subjects: Economics, Geography, Government, History, French, Mathematics, Accounting, Business Mathematics and Principles of Costing, General Knowledge in Art, Technical Drawing, and Religious Studies

Foreign applicants
Foreign applicants applying for admission into this programme are expected to have Ghanaian qualifications or their equivalence from any accredited institution. The Ghana Tertiary Education Commission (GTEC) evaluates and establishes the Ghanaian equivalence of all foreign qualifications. All foreign applicants must obtain evaluation reports on their credentials from GTEC and attach these reports as supporting documents to their applications.

2.   BSC. PLANNING
The BSc. Planning programme places considerable emphasis on the interdisciplinary character of planning at all scales and is designed to foster a broad-based foundation from which to understand and approach the different aspects of planning practice. The programme has a counter-balancing weight of practical training which enables students to develop a critical awareness of the social, economic, spatial and management issues underpinning socio-economic change, as well as provide operational skills set pertinent to working in the public, private or community domains. The programme is designed to provide interdisciplinary experience in planning and to serve as a bridge between disciplinary specialisations in some aspects of planning. This programme is thus crucial to strengthening the capacities of government departments and private entities in the areas of planning, resource mobilization and environmental sustainability.

Aims and Objectives

To equip students with analytical and problem-solving skills required to facilitate planning and management in the context of sustainable development;
To promote academic research and advancement of knowledge in the planning discipline;
To expose students to the integrated approach to planning with emphasis on the relationship between economic, social and spatial dimensions of development;
To expose students to strategies that promote equitable development.
Admission requirement

Candidates with WASSCE
Applicants must have passes in three core subjects (A1-C6) at the Senior High School level including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science/Core Science. They must also have passes in three elective subjects including Economics, Geography and a third subject, preferably, Mathematics, French, Government, History, Accounting, Business Mathematics and Principles of Costing, General Knowledge in Art, Technical Drawing, and Religious Studies.

Candidates with SSCE    
Applicants must have passes in three core subjects (A-D) at the Senior Secondary School level including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science/Core Science. They must also have passes in three elective subjects including Economics, Geography and a third subject, preferably, Mathematics, French, Government, History, Accounting, Business Mathematics and Principles of Costing, General Knowledge in Art, Technical Drawing, and Religious Studies.

Candidates with GCE O and A Level:
Applicants must have credit, (grade 1 – 6) in five subjects at GCE O Level including English Language and Mathematics; plus, three passes, (grade A – E) with at least a grade ‘D’ in one of the subjects at GCE A Level. Candidates must also have passes in three elective subjects including Economics and Geography, and a third subject, preferably, Mathematics, French, Government, History, Accounting, and Religious Studies.

Diploma holders
Applicants with Diploma or HND certificates in relevant fields (e.g. Settlement Studies, Real Estate, Building Technology, planning etc.) with at least a pass or its equivalent can apply for placement at level 200. Diploma holders with distinction and HND applicants with first class and second-class upper division will all be placed at level 200 in line with the University’s placement policy. 

Matured applicants 
Matured applicants must have attained 25 years of age at the time of application. Such candidates must sit and pass written and oral entrance examinations to be conducted by the University. Relevant work experience in the fields of land administration, planning, development work, etc. will be an added advantage to prospective applicants. In addition, mature applicants must have credits in English Language and Mathematics, and credit in any two of the following elective subjects: Economics, Geography, Government, History, French, Mathematics, Accounting, Business Mathematics and Principles of Costing, General Knowledge in Art, Technical Drawing, and Religious Studies

Foreign applicants
Foreign applicants applying for admission into this programme are expected to have Ghanaian qualifications or their equivalence from any accredited institution. The Ghana Tertiary Education Commission (GTEC) evaluates and establishes the Ghanaian equivalence of all foreign qualifications. All foreign applicants must obtain evaluation reports on their credentials from GTEC and attach these reports as supporting documents to their applications.

B.   DEPARTMENT OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STUDIES

1.   4-YEAR BSC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STUDIES
This programme is designed to address local, national and global human development problems occasioned by increasing population and youth unemployment and exacerbated by climate change and conflicts. It is a practical and multidisciplinary degree programme designed to equip graduates with the requisite skills to generate knowledge and analyse the social, environmental, and economic dimensions of development problems and to contribute to the achievement of the existing Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and post-SDGs issues. The graduates of the programme will easily find job opportunities in or outside Ghana with multilateral and bilateral agencies, including UNICEF, UNDP, UNFPA, World Bank, USAID, Global Affairs Canada, DANIDA, EU and reputable local and international NGOs, Ministries, Departments and Agencies, Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies and the private sector.

Entry Requirements

Candidates/applicants seeking admission must meet the minimum entry requirements for Universities under the West African Examination Council Examination categories, based on a competitive basis. They include:

WASSCE/SSSCE Applicants: 
Applicants with WASSCE/SSSCE should have Credit Passes (A1-C6/A-D) or better in six (6) subjects comprising three (3) core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) elective subjects from general arts, general science, homes economies or business. Students who studied geography, economics, elective mathematics, government are however, preferred. The aggregate score of the best six subjects (three cores and three electives) should not exceed 36.

General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level Candidates
Passes in three subjects (at least one of the passes should be Grade D or better). Also, applicants must have credit passes (Grade 6) in five (5) GCE ordinary level subjects, including English, Mathematics and a Science subject (for non-science students) and an Art subject for science students.

Diploma and Higher National Diploma (HND) Applicants
Applicants with Diploma and certificates in development studies-related programmes must have at least a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 2.50 or better to qualify for admission to level 200. HND certificate holders in a relevant field with at least a Second Class (Lower division) or its equivalent can apply for a placement at level 200. Diplomat holders will be examined before their placement.

Matured Applicants
Matured applicants must have attained at least 25 years of age at the time of the application. They will be required to show proof of age with a Ghana Card, or any legitimate documentary proof of birth date accepted in Ghana. Candidates must sit and pass a written entrance examination to be conducted by the University.

Foreign Applicants
Foreign applicants applying for admission into this programme are expected to have the Ghanaian qualifications or their equivalence from accredited/recognized institutions.
Cut off point: Aggregate 28

C.   DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT STUDIES

1.   4-YEAR BA COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT STUDIES
This programme aims to produce graduates with expertise in critical thinking, creativity and innovation for sustainable community development.  It conceptualises community development from the perspectives of postmodernism and alternative development paradigm. Accordingly, the curriculum incorporates indigenous cosmovisions into the teaching and learning processes in a bottom-up approach to community development. Since modernism and the robust development approaches have failed to address the development gaps of rural communities in developing countries, the curriculum revisits and innovates the pastiche of traditional styles of development eliminated by modernisation theorists in respect of democratic element of community engagement and the rights of beneficiaries to hear and be heard. Potential job titles products of the BA Community Development programme can apply for include Community Development Officer, Project Coordinator, Planning Officer, Microenterprise Program Coordinator, Community Outreach Specialist, Social Welfare Officer, etc. in international organisations, the public, non-governmental/civil society and private sectors.  

Admission requirements
The programme targets local and foreign applicants with the under-listed qualifications or their foreign equivalence, with backgrounds in the broader areas of General Arts, Business, Home Economics, Vocational Skills and the Physical Sciences for admission. 

WASSCE 
Holders of the West African Senior School Certificate (WASSCE) or its foreign equivalent. For the WASSCE holders, the minimum grade should be C6 in three (3) core subjects (English Language, Mathematics, Integrated Science/Social Studies), and three (3) elective subjects. Holders of the General Diploma (GD) or a Graduate Equivalency Diploma (GED) of American high school level or their equivalence with a minimum grade point average of 2.5 can also apply. 

SSSCE
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders with credit grade passes or better (A to C) in English Language, Mathematics (Core) and Social Studies/Integrated Science plus any three (3) other credit passes or better in three (3) elective subjects qualify to apply.

HND/Diploma
Holders of the Higher National Diploma (HND) and Diploma certificates in the social sciences or humanities with second class lower or better can apply and be admitted into the programme at Level 200. Those with third class or a pass would be admitted at level 100, All HND/Diploma holders would be required to attend and pass admission interview to determine their admission status.

GCE O’ Level/GCE A’ Level 
Holders of the General Certificate of Education- Ordinary Level (GCE O’ Level) from the British Council with credit passes (Grade 6 or better), or Cambridge O Level with credits passes (C6) in three (3) core subjects (English, Mathematics and Science), and three (3) elective subjects qualify to apply. Holders of the GCE A’ Level certificate with Grade D in three (3) subjects can also apply.

Certificate in Community Development Studies 
Mature applicants who are holders of a 6- months’ certificate in Community Development Studies, issued by the Department of Community Development Studies of UDS (or its equivalence), who pass the prescribed examinations (with English language and mathematics) would skip university entrance examinations for mature applicants. Such applicants would be invited to attend admission interview and admitted to level 200 or 100, depending on their performance, and after they have passed the admission interview.   

Mature applicants
Should be at least 25 years old; provide a birth certificate, Ghana Card, passport, or any documentary proof of nationality containing the date of birth, at least, five years before the academic year of application; an introductory letter from a current or previous employer, a letter of employment, pay slip or any other documentary proof of employment; pass a mature students’ entrance examinations in English Language, Mathematics and a paper in the subject area conducted by the University.

Prospective applicants should note that the above are the minimum entry requirements for the programme. However, the University for Development Studies may establish cut-off points of entry, depending on the number of applicants, general performance of candidates in the prescribed examinations and the absorptive capacity of the department in terms of academic facilities for each academic year.

Cut off Point 
With a minimum grade C6 in three core and three elective subjects for regular WASSCE applicants, consideration should be given to those who meet the general admission requirement of aggregate 36 or better. All other categories of applicants who meet the general requirements specified above should be admitted.

2.   4-Year BA Gender And Development Studies
This programme aims to produce graduates with theoretical and practical knowledge and skills in gender issues for sustainable development. With increasing advocacies and affirmative action for gender mainstreaming in decision-making, power-sharing in leadership and governance at all levels of societies, as of 2022, tertiary institutions in Ghana and most countries in West Africa lacked full-fledged academic programmes in the field of gender and development studies. The BA Gender and Development programme of UDS aims to produce graduates imbued with the scope of gender, the methods, approaches and tools for gender mainstreaming with basic skills in entry, engagement and driving gender responsive change in their areas of responsibilities. Graduates of the BA Gender and Development Studies program can find jobs in the decentralised  departments of the Ministry of Gender, Children and Social Protection such as the Department of Women and Children, Department of Social Welfare and Community Development; Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development, as well as Ministry of Education as Gender Desk Officers; Civil Society and Non-Governmental Organisations into the promotion of women’s rights and girl child education as Gender Planning Officers; international organisations such as United Nations Girls Education Initiative (UNGEI), UN Women and the European Gender Institute, as Gender Specialists.

Admission requirements:
The programme targets local and foreign applicants with the under-listed qualifications or their foreign equivalence, with backgrounds in the broader areas of General Arts, Business, Home Economics and Vocational Skills.

WASSCE
Holders of the West African Senior School Certificate (WASSCE) or its foreign equivalence. For WASSSCE holders, a minimum Grade of C6 is required in three (3) core subjects (English Language, Mathematics, Integrated Science/Social Studies), and three (3) elective subjects. Holders of the General Diploma (GD) or Graduate Equivalency Diploma (GED) of the American high school level or their equivalence with a minimum grade point average of 2.5 can also apply. 

SSSCE
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders with grades A to D in English Language, Mathematics (Core) and Social Studies/Integrated Science plus any three (3) other credit passes (A to C) in three (3) elective subjects qualify to apply.

HND/Diploma
Holders of the Higher National Diploma (HND) and Diploma certificates in the social sciences or humanities with Second Class Lower or better can apply and be admitted into the programme at Level 200. Those with third class or a pass would be admitted at level 100, All HND/Diploma holders would be required to attend and pass admission interview to determine their admission status.

GCE O’ Level/GCE A’ Level
Holders of the General Certificate of Education- Ordinary Level (GCE O’ Level) from the British Council with credit passes (Grade 6 or better), or Cambridge O Level with credits passes (C6) in the three core subjects (English, Mathematics and Science), and three (3) elective subjects qualify to apply.  Holders of the GCE A’ Level certificate with grade D in three (3) subjects can also apply.

Certificate in Gender and Development Studies 
Mature applicants who are holders of a 6- months’ certificate in Gender and Development Studies, issued by the Department of Community Development Studies of UDS (or its equivalence), who pass all the prescribed examinations (with English language and mathematics) would skip university entrance examinations for mature applicants. Such applicants would be invited to attend admission interview and admitted to level 200 or 100, depending on their performance, and after they have passed the admission interview.      

Mature applicants
Should be at least 25 years old; provide a birth certificate, Ghana Card, passport, or any documentary proof of nationality containing the date of birth, at least, five years before the academic year of application; an introductory letter from a current or previous employer, a letter of employment, pay slip  or  any other documentary proof of employment; pass a mature students’ entrance examinations in English Language, Mathematics and a paper in the subject area conducted by the University.

Prospective applicants should note that the above are the minimum entry requirements for the programme. However, the University for Development Studies may establish cut-off points of entry, depending on the number of applicants, general performance of candidates in the prescribed examinations and the absorptive capacity of the department in terms of academic facilities for each academic year. 

Cut off Point 
With a minimum grade C6 in three core and three elective subjects for regular WASSCE applicants, consideration should be given to those who meet the general admission requirement of aggregate 36 or better. All other categories of applicants who meet the general requirements specified above should be admitted.

3.   4 - YEAR BA IN DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION STUDIES
Recognizing the importance of attitudinal change to long-term development, the Bachelor of Arts programme in Development Education Studies is a four-year programme designed to train skilled personnel to serve as facilitators, managers and trainers for mass education and other alternative education programmes. 
The aim of the programme is to develop a core of professionals who are theoretically and practically oriented for functional and competency-based advocacy beyond the formal school to non-formal contexts. Students are equipped with core skills in creative and critical thinking, theoretical and practical skills for influencing attitudes, policies and behaviors and delivering competency-based training. 
Graduates of the Diploma programme, like the Diploma programme, have employment prospects in governmental and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and/or agencies, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), donor agencies, alternate education programmes among others.

Entry Requirements

Regular/School Candidates

SSSCE Credit Passes: (A-D) in six (6) subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
WASSCE Credit Passes: (A1-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three (3) core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects. 
GBCE Credit Passes: (A-D) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
Mature Applicants: 

Candidates must be 25 years, have passes in five GCE ‘O’ Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics/Statistics and Science.
must show proof of 5 years work experience in development work
All mature applicants must pass a competitive exam/interview to be conducted by the University/Faculty/Department.
4.   2-YEAR DIPLOMA IN DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION STUDIES

The Diploma in Development Education Studies programme is a two-year programme designed to respond to the training and skills gaps of field staff, community promoters and other relevant groups with basic qualifications for community education and more. Such staff and promoters are often selected from rural communities and often, with very minimal qualifications. The programme therefore seeks to train skilled personnel who can serve in mass education programmes and advocacy-based organisations. 
The ultimate aim of the Diploma in Development Education Studies programme is to provide students with basic theoretical and practical knowledge and skills that can prepare them to begin their careers as development education and/or advocacy practitioners.
Graduates of the Diploma programme have employment prospects in governmental and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and/or agencies, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and donor agencies, among others.
Successful graduates at the Diploma level who wish to continue the programme can ladder unto the Degree programme from level 200.

Entry Requirements 

SSSCE Candidates
Applicants under this category must have passes (A-D) in five (5) subjects, comprising three (3) core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, and two (2) elective subjects.

WASSCE Applicants
Applicants under this category must have passes (A1-C6) in five (5) subjects, comprising three (3) core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, and two (2) elective subjects.

Mature Applicants
Applicants under this category must be at least twenty-five (25) years old, and show proof of age with birth certificate or any legitimate documentary proof of birth date, which is at least five (5) years old at the time of application. Additionally, applicants;

must have passes in GCE/SSSCE passes in English Language and Mathematics
must show proof of 5 years work experience in development work
must pass a competitive exams/interview conducted by the University/Faculty /Department.
 

FACULTY OF EDUCATION

UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES

DEPARTMENT: BASIC EDUCATION STUDIES

SANDWICH PROGRAMMES

CERTIFICATE IN EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (SANDWICH) 

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION:
This is a comprehensive certificate sandwich course for Nursery Attendants who want to sharpen the skills in Early Childhood Education and people who may not meet the requirement for a Degree or Diploma in Basic Education or Early Grade Education but still want to have a University Education. 

The programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

To empower practitioners of early childhood care and education to adopt developmentally appropriate programmes and practices in their centres.
To provide opportunities for experienced pre-school teachers and attendants to upgrade themselves while on the job in order to enhance the quality of early childhood care and education services
To provide trained personnel for the government’s expansion programme for extending basic education with a further two years of pre-school education.
To equip participants with basic skills and competencies for further progression.
ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:
Duration: 2 sandwich sessions (July -August every academic year for 2 consecutive years)
Qualifications: A minimum of four passes (E8 or D7) in four WAEC examinable subjects including English and Maths.

DIPLOMA IN BASIC EDUCATION (SANDWICH)

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION:
It is intended to provide the teeming number of pupil-teachers in private schools and Cert A holders in public schools the opportunity to access professional teacher education to become competent basic school teachers to deliver quality education in Ghanaian Basic Schools.  It offers candidates the flexibility to be working while pursuing their dream of obtaining a university qualification. 
The programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

Provide pre-service basic education teacher trainees with the opportunity to apply the principles, techniques, and strategies of teaching to classroom practice.
Provide all student teachers with basic knowledge on the foundations of teaching and learning for effective classroom practice at the basic school.
Introduce trainees to reflective teaching practice where learning from their own classroom practices and other teachers in their schools of practice will serve as the basis for improving their teaching and learning 
Create opportunities for serving non-professional teachers to achieve basic professional qualifications and advance their careers for contributing more meaningfully to the on-going reforms in education
Contribute to addressing quality teaching and instructional management challenges in Basic Schools.
ENTRY REQUIREMENT:
Duration: 3 sandwich sessions (July -August every academic year for 3 consecutive years)
Qualifications: A minimum of 2 passes (E8 or D7) in English and Maths in addition to C6 or better in any three (3) elective subjects. 

DIPLOMA IN EARLY CHILDHOOD CARE AND EDUCATION (SANDWICH)

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION:
It is intended to provide the teeming number of pupil-teachers in private schools and Cert A holders in public schools the opportunity to access professional teacher education to become competent Early Childhood teachers to deliver quality preschool education in Ghanaian Nurseries and Kindergartens. It offers candidates the flexibility to be working while pursuing their dream of obtaining a university qualification. 

The programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

Provide pre-service basic education teacher trainees with the opportunity to apply the principles, techniques, and strategies of teaching to classroom practice.
Provide all student teachers with basic knowledge on the foundations of teaching and learning for effective classroom practice at the basic school.
Introduce trainees to reflective teaching practice where learning from their own classroom practices and other teachers in their schools of practice will serve as the basis for improving their teaching and learning 
Create opportunities for serving non-professional teachers to achieve basic professional qualifications and advance their careers for contributing more meaningfully to the on-going reforms in education
Contribute to addressing quality teaching and instructional management challenges in Basic Schools.
ENTRY REQUIREMENT:
Duration: 3 sandwich sessions (July -August every academic year for 3 consecutive years)
Qualifications: A minimum of 2 passes (E8 or D7) in English and Maths in addition to C6 or better in any three (3) elective subjects. 

POST-DIPLOMA IN BASIC EDUCATION (SANDWICH)
Duration: 3 sandwich sessions (July -August every academic year for 3 consecutive years)
Qualifications: A Diploma in Basic Education or Early Childhood Education with a CGPA of 2.5 or above

POST-DIPLOMA IN EARLY CHILDHOOD CARE AND EDUCATION (SANDWICH)

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION:
POST-DIPLOMA IN BASIC EDUCATION (SANDWICH)
The programme is as part of the effort to respond to local demand and directed towards building capacities for meeting on-going basic education reforms for quality education in Ghana. It provides Diploma holder in education the opportunity to pursue a top-up degree programme in Basic Education at the University. It will train and upgrade their skills on best pedagogical practices and current trends in Basic Education. It offers candidates the flexibility to be working while upgrading their professional qualifications to obtain a first degree in education.  

The programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

Provide pre-service and in-service students with the opportunity to apply the principles, techniques, and strategies of teaching to classroom practice.
Provide trainee-students with in-depth knowledge of the foundations of teaching and learning for effective classroom practices.
Equip and expand the research capacities of students for conducting classroom-based research and for translating knowledge into action within the pedagogical space.
Create opportunities for serving diploma teachers to upgrade their qualifications and advance their careers for contributing more meaningfully to the on-going reforms in education
Equip the graduates with modern methodologies for effective delivery of basic skills in numeracy, literacy and ICT;
Contribute to addressing the teaching quality and managerial challenges in Basic Schools.
ENTRY REQUIREMENT:
Duration: 3 sandwich sessions (July -August every year for 3 consecutive year)
Qualifications: A Diploma in Basic Education or Early Childhood Education with a CGPA of 2.5 or above.

REGULAR PROGRAMMES

DIPLOMA IN BASIC EDUCATION (REGULAR)

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION:
This programme is intended to provide Senior High School graduates who narrowly miss the requirements for pursuing the University Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.) programmes an opportunity to access direct university education to be trained as qualified and professional Basic Education teachers. It aims at building capacities for meeting the on-going basic education reforms towards the provision quality education in Ghanaian Basic Schools.  

The programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

Provide pre-service basic education teacher trainees with the opportunity to apply the principles, techniques, and strategies of teaching to classroom practice.
Provide all student teachers with basic knowledge on the foundations of teaching and learning for effective classroom practices at the basic school.
Introduce trainee to reflective teaching practice where learning from their own classroom practices and other teachers in their schools of practice will serve as the basis for improving their teaching and learning 
Create opportunities for serving non-professional teachers to achieve basic professional qualifications and advance their careers for contributing more meaningfully to the on-going reforms in education
Contribute to addressing quality teaching and instructional management challenges in Basic Schools.
ENTRY REQUIREMENT:
Duration: 2 academic years  
Qualifications: A minimum of 2 passes (E8 or D7) in English and Maths in addition to C6 or better in any three (3) elective subjects. 

DIPLOMA IN EARLY CHILDHOOD CARE AND EDUCATION (REGULAR)

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION:
This programme is intended to provide Senior High School graduates who narrowly miss the requirements for pursuing the University Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.) programmes an opportunity to access direct university education to be trained as qualified and professional Early Childhood Education teachers. It aims at building capacities for meeting the on-going basic education reforms towards the provision quality education in Ghanaian Basic Schools.  

The programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

To prepare pre service Early Childhood Care professionals who are equipped with the requisite knowledge and skill for handling children at the pre-school level. 
To create opportunity for untrained early childhood care givers to acquire professional skill and knowledge to improve their practice. 
To prepare professional with the attitudes and motivation for working with children in the early stage of schooling. 
To create opportunities for future students who can feed into our ongoing bachelor’s programmes in ECE. 
ENTRY REQUIREMENT:

Duration: 2 academic years  
Qualifications: A minimum of 2 passes (E8 or D7) in English and Maths in addition to C6 or better in any three (3) elective subjects. 

BACHELOR OF EDUCATION (B.ED.) IN BASIC EDUCATION (REGULAR) 

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION:
The programme provides quality university teacher education to students from Senior High Schools and colleges of Education.  It will train and upgrade their skills on best pedagogical practices and current trends in Basic Education. The programme seeks to produce competent, sound pre-service and in-service professionals Basic School teachers. It is developed as part of the effort to respond to local demand and directed towards building capacities for meeting on-going basic education reforms for quality education in Ghana. 


The programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

Provide pre-service and in-service students with the opportunity to apply the principles, techniques, and strategies of teaching to classroom practice.
Provide trainee-students with in-depth knowledge of the foundations of teaching and learning for effective classroom practices.
Equip and expand the research capacities of students for conducting classroom-based research and for translating knowledge into action within the pedagogical space.
Create opportunities for serving diploma teachers to upgrade their qualifications and advance their careers for contributing more meaningfully to the on-going reforms in education
Equip the graduates with modern methodologies for effective delivery of basic skills in numeracy, literacy and ICT;
Contribute to addressing the teaching quality and managerial challenges in Basic Schools.
ENTRY REQUIREMENT:
Duration: 4 academic years  
Qualifications: A least C6 in three (3) core WAEC examinable subjects including English and Maths and in three (3) elective subjects. 

BACHELOR OF EDUCATION (B.ED.) IN BASIC EDUCATION

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION:
The programme provides quality university teacher education to students from Senior High Schools and colleges of Education.  It will train and upgrade their skills on best pedagogical practices and current trends in Early Childhood Education. The programme will produce the needed professional Early Childhood Education teachers.  It is developed as part of the effort to respond to local demand and directed towards building capacities for meeting on-going basic education reforms for quality education in Ghana. 

The programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

Promote classroom-based research and instructional development training
Enable students acquire theoretical and practical knowledge of teaching and managing preschools.
Equip the graduates with modern methodologies for effective delivery.
Address the teaching and managerial challenges in Early Childhood Care and Development Centres.
Promote the professional identity, prestige and respect for the early childhood Educators.
Demonstrate the ability to motivate and help pre-schoolers build the basic foundations for their development in the three domains (cognitive, affective, and psychomotor).
ENTRY REQUIREMENT:

Duration: 4 academic years  
Qualifications: A least C6 in three (3) core WAEC examinable subjects including English and Maths and in three (3) elective subjects.

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS EDUCATION (DoBE)

PROGRAMME: Bachelor of Education in Business Studies (BED Business Studies) with options in Accounting and Business Management

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION: 
This programme is a 4-year undergraduate degree programme. This programme will train professional business education teachers to teach Accounting/Business Management in public and private senior high schools. It will also equip them with the requisite skills to work in the business industry. The BED Business Studies Programme is structured so that student teachers are to take a combination of University Mandatory and Core Educational and Departmental courses and Compulsory Elective courses from the Department of Business Studies. The BED Business Studies curriculum integrates three interconnected subjects: Business Management, Financial Accounting and Cost Accounting. In the first year, student teachers undertake comprehensive studies covering all three disciplines. In the second year, the programme offers two specialised options: 

Business Studies (Management Option), focusing exclusively on Business Management and 
Business Studies (Accounting Option), which includes Financial Accounting and Cost Accounting. The programme is designed to equip student teachers with essential competencies to excel in dynamic educational and business environments.


The programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:
Train accounting and management teachers or facilitators for senior high schools

Promote basic and applied research in accounting and management education
Prepare student-teacher for higher academic and professional pursuits in accounting and business management education
Prepare student teachers to employ innovative technologies, financial literacy, problem-solving, innovative, creative, collaborative and communication skills that efficiently create and manage businesses to drive transformation and industrialisation in the global economy. 
The programme will inculcate values such as integrity, truthfulness, equity, discipline, self-confidence, adaptability and resourcefulness, leadership, and responsible citizenship in student teachers.
Provide students with the essential tools and capabilities to launch a successful career in industry and leverage for professional qualification programmes in education, accounting and management
Equip students with skills that will enable them to move beyond their traditional teaching role and offer extra value in strategic decision in educational management and community service.
ENTRY REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION OF STUDENTS

West African Examination Council (WAEC) Examination Category:
Candidates/applicants seeking admission to pursue a degree programme must first and foremost meet the minimum entry requirements for universities under the West African Examination Council (WAEC) examinations categories which are based on a competitive basis including:

Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) candidates:  Grade D or better in three (3) core subjects (English Language, Mathematics (core), Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three (3) elective subjects. The aggregate score of the best 6 subjects (three core and three electives) should not exceed 24. 
West African Senior Secondary Certificate Examination candidates: Grade C6 or better in three core subjects (English Language, Mathematics, Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three elective subjects. The aggregate score of the best 6 subjects (three core and three electives) should not exceed 36.
General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level Candidates: Pass in three (3) subjects (at least one of the passes should be graded or better). Also, the applicant must have had credit passes (Grade 6) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Science subjects (for non-science students) and an Art subject (for science students).
Advanced Business Certificate Examination (ABCE)candidates: Passes in three (3) subjects (at least, one of the passes should be grade D or better).  Also, the applicant must have had credit passes in five subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies in the General Business Certificate Examination (GBCE).
Mature Students’ Entry

The candidate must be at least 25 years old,
Show proof of age with birth certificate or any legitimate document proof of date of birth which is at least 5 years old at the time of application.
Provide an introductory letter from the employer or show other proof of employment.
Pass Matured Students’ Entrance Examinations conducted by the institution itself (English Language, Mathematics and a pare in the subject area as well as an interview).
Foreign Qualifications:
All foreign qualifications that are necessary would be referred to the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission (GTEC) for determination of equivalences and eligibility for admission into the university’s programmes.

Higher Nation Diploma (HND) Qualifications

High National Diploma and other Diploma applicants seeking admission into the Degree programme should possess a good HND certificate (i.e., at least Second-Class Lower Division in the relevant area). 
The HND applicants would be admitted to level 100 or 200 depending on the programme sought. Applicants would be expected to pass a selection interview to be conducted by the university.   
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SCIENCES EDUCATION

B. ED. SOCIAL SCIENCES

DESCRIPTION
The B. Ed. Social Sciences programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It specifically trains them as specialist teachers giving them the option or opportunity to specialize in any of the following specialisms: History, Political Science (Government), Geography, and Economics.
The system of specialisation entails a Major-Minor structure, which means that, of the four areas of specialisation, a successful applicant will have to select any one as their Major specialism, and any other one as their Minor specialism at the point of entry into the programme: once a combination is registered in the First Trimester of the First Year, a student shall not be able to change it at any later point in the training.

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:

WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must include at least two Social Science subjects, which must fall in the list of subjects from which the candidate shall select their specialisms (History, Government, Geography and Economics). The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition to this, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both the categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme, except for those having a Diploma in Social Sciences (Education), who would be placed in the Second Year (Level 200).     

B. ED. HISTORY

DESCRIPTION 
The B. Ed. History programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It is a Single-Major programme, and thus only History is the available area of specialisation.

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:

WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must be Social Science subjects and must include History. The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition to this, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme.

B. ED. POLITICAL SCIENCE

DESCRIPTION 
The B. Ed. Political Science programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It is a Single-Major programme, and thus only Political Science is the available area of specialisation.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:

WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must be Social Science subjects and must include Political Science. The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition to this, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme.

B. ED. GEOGRAPHY

DESCRIPTION 
The B. Ed. Geography programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It is a Single-Major programme, and thus only Geography is the available area of specialisation.

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:

WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must be Social Science subjects and must include Geography. The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition to this, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme.

B. ED. ECONOMICS

DESCRIPTION 
The B. Ed. Economics programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It is a Single-Major programme, and thus only Economics is the available area of specialisation.

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:
WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must be Social Science subjects and must include Economics. The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition to this, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme.


B. ED. SOCIAL STUDIES

DESCRIPTION
The B. Ed. Social Studies programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It specifically trains them as specialist teachers giving them the option or opportunity to specialize in any of the following specialisms: History, Political Science (Government), Geography, and Economics.
The system of specialisation entails a Major-Minor structure, which means that, of the four areas of specialisation, a successful applicant will have to select any one as their Major specialism, and any other one as their Minor specialism at the point of entry into the programme: once a combination is registered in the First Trimester of the First Year, a student shall not be able to change it at any later point in the training.

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:

WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must include at least two Social Science subjects, which must fall in the list of subjects from which the candidate shall select their specialisms (History, Government, Geography and Economics). The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition to this, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both the categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme, except for those having a Diploma in Social Sciences (Education), who would be placed in the Second Year (Level 200).

B. ED. LANGUAGES

DESCRIPTION
The B. Ed. Languages programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It specifically trains them as specialist teachers giving them the option or opportunity to specialize in any of the following specialisms: Arabic, English, French and Dagbani. 
The system of specialisation entails a Major-Minor structure, which means that, of the four areas of specialisation, a successful applicant will have to select any one as their Major specialism, and any other one as their Minor specialism at the point of entry into the programme: once a combination is registered in the First Trimester of the First Year, a student shall not be able to change it at any later point in the training.

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:

WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must include at least two Language-related subjects, which may be two languages (any two of: Arabic, English, French and Dagbani), or language and literature. The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition to this, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both the categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme.

B. ED. ARABIC

DESCRIPTION 
The B. Ed. Arabic programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It is a Single-Major programme, and thus has only Arabic as the available area of specialisation.

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:

WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must include at least two language-related subjects (languages and/or literature), which must include Arabic. (Candidates without this specific requirement, who have any other form of demonstrable proof of advanced background of training, proficiency and interest in the language, will be considered. Such candidates must still have passes in any three WASSCE Elective Subjects). The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science or Social Studies.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition to this, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme, except for those who shall excel in the spoken and written Arabic test at the interview, who will be placed in the Second Year (Level 200).     

B. ED. ENGLISH

DESCRIPTION 
The B. Ed. English programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It is a Single-Major programme, and thus only English is the available area of specialization.

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:

WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must include at least two language-related subjects (languages and/or literature), which must include English. The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme.

B. ED. FRENCH

DESCRIPTION 
The B. Ed. French programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It is a Single-Major programme, and thus only French is the available area of specialization.

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:

WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must include at least two language-related subjects (languages and/or literature), which must include French. The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme.

B. ED. DAGBANI

DESCRIPTION 
The B. Ed. Dagbani programme is a Secondary Teacher Education Programme (designed to train teachers to teach mainly at the Senior Secondary School level). It is a Single-Major programme, and thus only Dagbani is the available area of specialization.

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:

WASSCE APPLICANTS

WASSCE applicants must have a minimum pass of C6 in six WASSCE subjects, three of which must be Elective Subjects and three Core Subjects.
The three Electives must include at least two language-related subjects (languages and/or literature), which must include Dagbani. (Candidates without this specific requirement, who have any other form of demonstrable proof of advanced background of training, proficiency and interest in the language, will be considered. Such candidates must still have passes in any three WASSCE Elective Subjects). The Core Subjects must include Core Maths, Core English, and Core Science or Social Studies.
MATURE AND DIPLOMA APPLICANTS
Mature and Diploma applicants must also have WASSCE results with minimum passes of D7 in those same required subjects listed above for WASSCE applicants. In addition, they will be required to write a university-wide entrance exams and present themselves for a departmental interview to determine their eligibility for selection or admission.

ADMISSION
All successful applicants from both categories listed above shall be admitted to the First Year (Level 100) of the Four-Year programme.

DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS AND ICT EDUCATION

B. ED MATHEMATICS PROGRAMME

Programme Description: The Bachelor of Education (B. Ed) degree in Mathematics Education is an academic programme which is carefully designed to produce teachers in Mathematics. It has been aimed to provide a good blend of knowledge in mathematics and in education. It blends theory in the form of lectures and seminars with practical training in methodology and internships. It exposes students to current topical issues of Mathematics teaching and environmental relevance. It is a four-year programme designed with the view to train young men and women for careers in education and the teaching profession.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
Generally, the main purpose of the B. Ed Mathematics programme is to produce competent Mathematics Teachers for the education sector.
Specifically, the four-year bachelor of education programme seeks to:

Develop a practical knowledge and understanding of the ways of teaching Mathematics
Produce Mathematics Education professionals who can recognize and appreciate the role of Mathematics Education in development.
Produce Mathematics Education professionals who can use practical approaches, methodology and resources for promoting interest in the learning in schools.
Build skills for using innovative approaches and methodologies for promoting confidence and competencies in themselves for teaching and in their students for learning Mathematics.
Equip students’ teachers with skills and techniques for motivating students and generating enthusiasm for the learning of mathematics through practical activities, exploration and discussions in everyday living.
EMPLOYMENT PROSPECTS
B. Ed. Mathematics has many job prospects, including the following:

Ghana Education Service (GES) - as teachers
Private schools – as teachers
Non-Governmental organisations (NGOs) – as data analysts 
Consultancy firms – as researchers
Universities and polytechnics – as lecturers and researchers etc. 
Corporate Institutions – as data analysts, bankers, etc.
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

WASSCE: Candidates/applicants seeking admission must meet the minimum entry requirements for Universities under the West African Examination Council Examination categories, based on a competitive basis. They  including:
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) Candidates: Grades D or better in three (3) core subjects (English Language, Mathematics (core), Integrated Science) and three electives. Elective Mathematics and any two of the following: Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Economics, Geography, Management, Accounting, etc. The aggregate score of the best six (6) subjects (three cores and three electives) should not exceed 24.
West African Senior School Certificate Examination Candidates: Grades C6 or better in three (3) core subjects (English Language, Mathematics (core), Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three electives. Elective Mathematics and any two of the following: Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Economics, Geography, Management, Accounting, etc. The aggregate score of the best six subjects (three cores and three electives) should not exceed 36.
General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level Candidates: Passes in three subjects including Mathematics (at least one of the passes should be Grade D or better). Also, applicants must have credit passes (Grade 6) in five (5) GCE ordinary level subjects, including English, Mathematics and General Science (for non-science students) and an Art subject for science students.

Matured Students’ Entry: The candidate must:

Be at least 25 years old and provide proof with a birth certificate or any legitimate document containing the date of birth at least five years old at the time of application. 
Provide an introductory letter from an employer or other proof of employment.
Have five (5) years of employment experience.
Pass a mature students’ entrance examinations conducted by the University (English Language, Mathematics and a paper in the subject area, and an interview). In lieu of the examination, the applicant should provide proof of credit passes in five (5) GCE O’ Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and General Science; SSSCE/WASSCE holders must have passes in Core English Language, Mathematics, Integrated Science, Social Studies and the three elective subjects in the Social Sciences/Humanities. One of which should be Elective Mathematics.
Foreign Qualifications: All foreign qualifications will be referred to the National Accreditation Board (NAB) to determine equivalences and eligibility for admissions into the University’s programmes.
Higher National Diploma (HND) Qualifications: Higher National Diploma (HND) applicants seeking admission into degree programmes should possess a good HND certificate (i.e. At least Second-Class Lower Division in the relevant area). The HND applicants will be admitted to level 100 or 200, depending on the programme sought. Applicants will be expected to pass a selection interview conducted by the university. 
Other Diploma applicants seeking admission into degree programmes should possess a distinction or pass with a GPA not below 1.5. In addition, Diploma students must have done Elective Mathematics and any one of the following in their Senior High School certificate Examination. Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Economics, History, Geography, Management, Accounting, etc.
B. ED INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND TECHNOLOGY (ICT) PROGRAMME

Programme Description: The Bachelor of Education (B. Ed) degree in ICT is an academic programme which is carefully designed to produce teachers in ICT. It is aimed to provide a good blend of knowledge in ICT and in education. It blends theory in the form of lectures and practical training in content, methodology and internships. It exposes students to current topical issues of ICT teaching and environmental relevance. It is a four-year programme designed with the view to train young men and women for careers in both education and non-education sectors.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
Generally, the main purpose of the B. Ed ICT programme is to produce competent ICT Teachers for the education sector.
Specifically, the four-year bachelor of education programme seeks to:

Develop a practical knowledge and understanding of the ways of teaching ICT
Produce ICT Education professionals who can recognize and appreciate the role of ICT Education in development.
Produce ICT Education professionals who can use practical approaches, methodology and resources for promoting interest in the learning in schools.
Build skills for using innovative approaches and methodologies for promoting confidence and competencies in themselves for teaching and in their students for learning ICT.
Equip students’ teachers with skills and techniques for motivating students and generating enthusiasm for the learning of ICT through practical activities, exploration and discussions in everyday living.
EMPLOYMENT PROSPECTS
After completing the programme, graduates can be employed by:

Ghana Education Service (e.g. Basic schools and Senior High Schools)
Private Educational Institutions
Non-Governmental Organizations and other private organizations 
Other Public Sector Employment (e.g. Ministry of Communication, Information etc.)
Graduates will also acquire requisite knowledge and skills to undertake entrepreneurial ventures.

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
WASSCE: Candidates/applicants seeking admission must meet the minimum entry requirements for Universities under the West African Examination Council Examination categories, based on a competitive basis. 

They including:

Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) Candidates: Grades D or better in three (3) core subjects (English Language, Mathematics (core), Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three electives. Elective Mathematics and any two of the following: Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Economics, Geography, Management, Accounting, etc. The aggregate score of the best six (6) subjects (three cores and three electives) should not exceed 24.
West African Senior School Certificate Examination Candidates: Grades D or better in three (3) core subjects (English Language, Mathematics (core), Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three electives. Elective Mathematics and any two of the following: Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Economics, Geography, Management, Accounting, etc. The aggregate score of the best six subjects (three cores and three electives) should not exceed 36.
General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level Candidates: Passes in three subjects including Mathematics (at least one of the passes should be Grade D or better). Also, applicants must have credit passes (Grade 6) in five (5) GCE ordinary level subjects, including English, Mathematics and General Science (for non-science students) and an Art subject for science students.
Matured Students’ Entry: The candidate must:

Be at least 25 years old and provide proof with a birth certificate or any legitimate document containing the date of birth at least five years old at the time of application. 
Provide an introductory letter from an employer or other proof of employment.
Have five (5) years of employment experience.
Pass a mature students’ entrance examinations conducted by the University (English Language, Mathematics and a paper in the subject area, and an interview). In lieu of the examination, the applicant should provide proof of credit passes in five (5) GCE O’ Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and General Science; SSSCE/WASSCE holders must have passes in Core English Language, Mathematics, Integrated Science, Social Studies and the three elective subjects in the Social Sciences/Humanities. One of which should be Elective Mathematics.
Foreign Qualifications: All foreign qualifications will be referred to the National Accreditation Board (NAB) to determine equivalences and eligibility for admissions into the University’s programmes.
Higher National Diploma (HND) Qualifications: Higher National Diploma (HND) applicants seeking admission into degree programmes should possess a good HND certificate (i.e. At least second-class lower division in the relevant area). The HND applicants will be admitted to level 100 or 200, depending on the programme sought. Applicants will be expected to pass a selection interview conducted by the university. 
Other Diploma applicants seeking admission into degree programmes should possess a distinction or pass with a GPA not below 1.5. In addition, Diploma students must have done in any one of the following in their Senior High School certificate Examination. Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Economics, Geography, Management, Accounting, etc.
B. ED COMPUTING PROGRAMME

Programme Description: The Bachelor of Education (B. Ed) degree in Computing is an academic programme which is carefully designed to produce teachers in Computing. It is aimed to provide a good blend of knowledge in Computing and in education. It blends theory in the form of lectures and practical training in content, methodology and internships. It exposes students to current topical issues of Computing teaching and environmental relevance. It is a four-year programme designed with the view to train young men and women for careers in both education and non-education sectors.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
Generally, the main purpose of the B. Ed Computing programme is to produce competent Computing Teachers for the education sector.
Specifically, the four-year bachelor of education programme seeks to:

Develop a practical knowledge and understanding of the ways of teaching Computing.
Produce Computing Education professionals who can recognize and appreciate the role of Computing Education in development.
Produce Computing Education professionals who can use practical approaches, methodology and resources for promoting interest in the learning in schools.
Build skills for using innovative approaches and methodologies for promoting confidence and competencies in themselves for teaching and in their students for learning Computing.
Equip students’ teachers with skills and techniques for motivating students and generating enthusiasm for the learning of Computing through practical activities, exploration and discussions in everyday living.
EMPLOYMENT PROSPECTS
After completing the programme, graduates can be employed by:

Ghana Education Service (e.g. Basic schools and Senior High Schools)
Private Educational Institutions
Non-Governmental Organizations and other private organizations 
Other Public Sector Employment (e.g. Ministry of Communication, Information etc.)
Graduates will also acquire requisite knowledge and skills to undertake entrepreneurial ventures.
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

WASSCE: Candidates/applicants seeking admission must meet the minimum entry requirements for Universities under the West African Examination Council Examination categories, based on a competitive basis. They including:
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) Candidates: Grades D or better in three (3) core subjects (English Language, Mathematics (core), Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three (3) electives including Elective Mathematics and any other two electives with aggregate not exceed 24.
West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) Candidates: Grades C6 or better in three (3) core subjects (English Language, Mathematics (core), Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three electives, including Elective Mathematics. The aggregate score of the best six subjects (three cores and three electives) should not exceed 36.
General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level Candidates: Passes in three subjects including Mathematics (at least one of the passes should be Grade D or better). Also, applicants must have credit passes (Grade 6 or better) in five (5) GCE ordinary level subjects, including English, Mathematics and General Science (for non-science students) and an Art subject for science students.
Matured Students’ Entry: The candidate must:

Be at least 25 years old and provide proof with a birth certificate or any legitimate document containing the date of birth at least five years old at the time of application. 
Provide an introductory letter from an employer or other proof of employment.
Have at least five (5) years of employment experience.
Pass a mature students’ entrance examinations conducted by the University (English Language, Mathematics and a paper in the subject area, and an interview). In lieu of the examination, the applicant should provide proof of credit passes in five (5) GCE O’ Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and General Science; SSSCE/WASSCE holders must have passes in Core English Language, Mathematics, Integrated Science, Social Studies and the three elective subjects in the General Science. One of which should be Elective Mathematics.
Foreign Qualifications: All foreign qualifications will be referred to the National Accreditation Board (NAB) to determine equivalences and eligibility for admissions into the University’s programmes.

Higher National Diploma (HND) Qualifications: Higher National Diploma (HND) applicants seeking admission into degree programmes should possess a good HND certificate (i.e. At least Second-Class Lower Division in the relevant area). The HND applicants will be admitted to level 100 or 200, depending on the programme sought. Applicants will be expected to pass a selection interview conducted by the university. 

Other Diploma applicants seeking admission into degree programmes should possess a distinction or pass with a GPA not below 1.5. In addition, Diploma students must have done in any two of the following in their Senior High School certificate Examination. Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Economics, Geography, Management, Accounting, etc.


DIPLOMA IN INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND TECHNOLOGY (ICT) EDUCATION PROGRAMME


Programme Description: The Diploma in ICT Education is an academic programme which is designed to produce teachers in ICT. It is aimed to provide a good blend of knowledge in ICT and in education. It blends theory in the form of lectures and practical training in content, methodology and internships. It exposes students to current topical issues of ICT teaching and environmental relevance. It is a two-year programme designed with the view to train young men and women for careers in both education and non-education sectors.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
Generally, the main purpose of the Diploma in ICT Education programme is to produce competent ICT Teachers for the education sector.
Specifically, the two-year diploma in ICT Education programme seeks to:

Equip graduates with the requisite foundation in ICT to enable them lather to pursue B. Ed ICT programmes.
Develop a practical knowledge and understanding of the ways of teaching ICT
Build skills for using innovative approaches and methodologies for promoting confidence and competencies in themselves for teaching and in their students for learning ICT.
Equip students’ teachers with skills and techniques for motivating students and generating enthusiasm for the learning of ICT through practical activities, exploration and discussions in everyday living.
EMPLOYMENT PROSPECTS
After completing the programme, graduates can be employed by:

Ghana Education Service (e.g. Basic schools and Senior High Schools)
Private Educational Institutions
Non-Governmental Organizations and other private organizations 
Other Public Sector Employment (e.g. Ministry of Communication, Information etc.)
Graduates will also acquire requisite knowledge and skills to undertake entrepreneurial ventures.
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Candidates/applicants seeking admission must meet the minimum entry requirements for Universities under the West African Examination Council Examination categories, based on a competitive basis. They including:

Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE): Candidates must have at least three (3) passes in core subjects including English Language and Mathematics, and credit passes (Grade D or better) in at least two in electives, including Elective Mathematics. 
West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE):  Candidates must have at least three (3) passes in core subjects including English Language and Mathematics, and credit passes (Grade C6 or better) in at least two in electives, including Elective Mathematics. 
General Certificate of Education (GCE) Ordinary Level Candidates: Applicants must have credit passes (Grade 6 or better) in five (5) GCE ordinary level subjects, including English, Mathematics and General Science (for non-science students) and an Art subject for science students.
Matured Students’ Entry: The candidate must:

Be at least 25 years old and provide proof with a birth certificate or any legitimate document containing the date of birth at least five years old at the time of application. 
Provide an introductory letter from an employer or other proof of employment.
Have five (5) years of employment experience.
Pass a mature students’ entrance examinations conducted by the University (English Language, Mathematics and a paper in the subject area, and an interview). In lieu of the examination, the applicant should provide proof of credit passes in five (5) GCE O’ Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and General Science. 
SSSCE/WASSCE holders must have passes in core and elective subjects including Elective Mathematics in the Sciences, Social Sciences/Humanities.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SCIENCES EDUCATION (DoHSE)

BACHELOR OF EDUCATION IN HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION (B. ED HPE)

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRAMME
The Bachelor of Education in Health and Physical Education (B.Ed. in HPE) programme is grounded in the belief that physical education, health promotion, and well-being are fundamental components of a well-rounded education and integral to lifelong personal development. The programme aims to equip future teachers and educators with the knowledge, skills, and dispositions necessary to foster physical, mental, and social health in diverse educational settings. Key philosophical tenets of the programme include holistic development, promoting lifelong physical activity, Inclusive and Equitable Education, and promoting mental and emotional well-being among other things. 
The programme is founded on the belief that physical education and health promotion are key components in developing well-balanced individuals and fostering a healthier, more active society. By combining academic learning with practical teaching experiences, the programme prepares teachers and educators who are not only skilled in the delivery of high-quality physical education, but also committed to promoting lifelong wellness, inclusivity, and social change.

The Aim of the B. Ed Health and Physical Education programme
The Bachelor of Education in Health and Physical Education programme is designed to prepare teacher trainees to teach physical education and promote health and wellness in diverse educational settings. The program combines academic study with practical teaching experiences, and its objectives reflect the broad goals of nurturing well-rounded, knowledgeable, and passionate educators who can inspire positive physical, mental, and social development in students.

Objectives of the Programme
The B.Ed. Health and Physical Education programme seeks 

To develop Proficient and Knowledgeable Physical Education teachers to teach the Health, and Physical Education course in Senior High/ Technical and Junior High Schools 
To promote Health and Wellness in Schools through teachers integrating health education into their teaching practices, covering topics such as nutrition, mental health, substance abuse prevention, and sexual health education as well as encouraging the development of school-wide wellness initiatives that promote healthy lifestyles, regular physical activity, and good nutrition.
To prepare graduates to advocate for the importance of physical activity and healthy habits in the school curriculum and community.
To develop teacher trainees Skills in Curriculum Design and Assessment
To train teachers that will Promote Inclusivity and Equity in Physical Education
To train teachers to take on leadership roles in the promotion of physical education and wellness within the school and wider community.
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

SSCE/WASSCE holders seeking admission into degree must have at least C6 (WASSCE Candidates) or D (SSSCE Candidates) in all their three Core and three Elective Subjects.  Candidates should therefore possess at least, credit scores/grades in the following:

Regular/School Candidates:
Three core subjects (English Language, Mathematics (Core) and Integrated Science/Social Studies) and any three elective Science subjects.
Aggregate score of the best six subjects (three core and three electives) must not exceed 36 (for WASSCE scale) and 24 (for SSSCE scale). However, admission will be based on competitive basis.  

Matured applicants: 

Candidates must be 25 years, have passes in five GCE ‘O’ Level subjects, including English Language, Mathematics/Statistics and Science while SSSCE/WASSCE holders must have passes in core English Language, Mathematics and Social Studies as well as any three elective Science subjects.  
All mature applicants must attend and pass a practical and theoretical examination and selection interview to be conducted by the University, Faculty and/or Department.
Holders of Diploma in Physical Education Certificates, not lower than 2nd class lower or its equivalent, who apply shall be admitted to second year of the programme. 
DEPARTMENT: SCIENCE EDUCATION

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE EDUCATION (B.Ed.) (REGULAR) 

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION
The Bachelor of Science Education (B.Ed.) degree is a comprehensive academic program meticulously designed to prepare science teachers for pre-tertiary and second-cycle schools. The program aims to provide a robust blend of scientific knowledge and educational expertise, equipping graduates with the skills required for effective teaching and academic leadership.
The B.Ed. Science program integrates theoretical learning through lectures and seminars with practical training in teaching methodologies and hands-on internships. This dual approach ensures that students understand science principles and develop the pedagogical skills necessary for impactful classroom instruction.
Additionally, the program addresses current and emerging issues in science education, emphasising environmental relevance and the societal implications of scientific advancements. By exploring topical areas such as curriculum innovation, STEM education, and sustainability, students are prepared to adapt to the evolving demands of science teaching.

This four-year program is carefully structured to train young men and women for careers in education and teaching. The curriculum balances foundational science courses with advanced education studies, fostering the development of competent, reflective, and innovative science educators capable of inspiring the next generation of learners.

Aims and Objectives:
Aims: The programme seeks to train competent science teachers for Senior High School (SHS).

Objectives:
The B. Ed (Science) programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

Equip students with theoretical and practical knowledge to be competent science teachers 
help students design and use educational resources to improve the delivery of science 
Apply appropriate pedagogical values to the teaching of the facts and principles of science and its application in schools 
Develop innovative methods to moderate and facilitate instructional and other curriculum processes toward generating and validating scientific knowledge.
Enable students to acquire the facts and principles of science and its applications.
Equip students with skills to conduct research into the teaching and learning of science.
Biology, chemistry, and physics are sub-specializations that students can major in with a minor
Entry requirements for admission of students:

Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations (SSSCE), West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) and General Business Certificate Examination (GBCE).
The general requirements for admission of WASSCE, SSSCE, and GBCE candidates to the first-degree programme are three (3) credit passes in three core subjects and three (3) credit passes in three relevant elective subjects.
SSSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A-D)     in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
WASSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A1-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
GBCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics, General or Integrated Science plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advance Level Candidates
Passes in three (3) subjects (at least, one of the passes should be grade D or better). Also, the applicant must have had credit passes (Grade 6) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Science subject (for non-science students) and an Arts subject (for Science students).

Admission of Higher National Diploma (HND) Candidates to First Degree Programmes

Applicant must have graduated with a good HND certificate (i.e. at least 2nd Class Lower Division). In addition, the applicant must have acquired a 2-year post-HND qualification working experience. Institutions under mentorship will follow their Mentor Institutions’ practice with regard to entry levels for HND applicants.
HND and Teachers’ Diploma holders in science education with a Second Class (Lower Division) will be admitted into year two (Level 200). In contrast, graduates without science education and holders of Second Class (Lower Division) will be eligible for year one (Level 100). Students starting from year two will edit some year one course to acquire basic principles to build on.
Additionally, the applicant must pass a selection interview conducted by the University.  
Other Diploma qualifications from elsewhere assessed as equivalent to HND may be similarly considered.
Mature Students’ Entry

Mature students’ entry avenues to tertiary education provide opportunities for people who could not do so earlier in their lives to further their education at the tertiary level after some years in the workplace. Such applicants should typically not exceed 5% (for Public Tertiary Educational Institutions) and 20% (for Private Tertiary Educational Institutions) of the total admissions of an institution each year. 
The applicant must be at least 25 years old and show proof of age with a birth certificate or any legitimate document proof of date of birth, which must be at least 25 years old at the time of application.
For admission into chartered institutions, applicants must pass Mature Students’ Entrance Examinations conducted by the institution itself (English Language, Mathematics, and an Aptitude Test).
In the case of a non-charted institution, the examinations will be moderated, and the marked scripts will be vetted by their Mentor institution. In lieu of such examinations, the applicant should show proof of credit in English Language and Mathematics in WASSCE or any other nationally recognised standard High School level examinations (for qualifications from countries outside WAEC’s aegis).
BACHELOR OF PHYSICS EDUCATION (B.Ed.) (REGULAR) 

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION
The Bachelor of Physics Education (B.Ed.) degree is a comprehensive academic program meticulously designed to prepare Physics teachers for pre-tertiary and second-cycle schools. The program aims to provide a robust blend of scientific knowledge and educational expertise, equipping graduates with the skills required for effective teaching and academic leadership.
The B.Ed. Physics program integrates theoretical learning through lectures and seminars with practical training in teaching methodologies and hands-on internships. This dual approach ensures that students understand Physics principles and develop the pedagogical skills necessary for impactful classroom instruction.
Additionally, the program addresses current and emerging issues in Physics education, emphasising environmental relevance and the societal implications of scientific advancements. By exploring topical areas such as curriculum innovation, STEM education, and sustainability, students are prepared to adapt to the evolving demands of Physics teaching.
This four-year program is carefully structured to train young men and women for careers in education and teaching. The curriculum balances foundational Physics courses with advanced education studies, fostering the development of competent, reflective, and innovative Physics educators capable of inspiring the next generation of learners.

Aims and Objectives:
Aims: The programme seeks to train competent Physics teachers for Senior High School (SHS).

Objectives:
The B. Ed (Science) programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

Equip students with theoretical and practical knowledge to be competent Physics teachers 
 help students design and use educational resources to improve the delivery of Physics
 Apply appropriate pedagogical values to the teaching of the facts and principles of Physics and its application in schools 
Develop innovative methods to moderate and facilitate instructional and other curriculum processes toward generating and validating scientific knowledge.
Enable students to acquire the facts and principles of Physics and its applications.
Equip students with skills to conduct research into the teaching and learning of Physics.
Entry requirements for admission of students:
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations (SSSCE), West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) and General Business Certificate Examination (GBCE).
The general requirements for admission of WASSCE, SSSCE, and GBCE candidates to the first-degree programme are three (3) credit passes in three core subjects and three (3) credit passes in three relevant elective subjects.

SSSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A-D)     in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
WASSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A1-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
GBCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics, General or Integrated Science plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advance Level Candidates
Passes in three (3) subjects (at least, one of the passes should be grade D or better). Also, the applicant must have had credit passes (Grade 6) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Science subject (for non-science students) and an Arts subject (for Science students).

Admission of Higher National Diploma (HND) Candidates to First Degree Programmes
Applicant must have graduated with a good HND certificate (i.e. at least 2nd Class Lower Division). In addition, the applicant must have acquired a 2-year post-HND qualification working experience. Institutions under mentorship will follow their Mentor Institutions’ practice with regard to entry levels for HND applicants.

HND and Teachers’ Diploma holders in science education with a Second Class (Lower Division) will be admitted into year two (Level 200). In contrast, graduates without science education and holders of Second Class (Lower Division) will be eligible for year one (Level 100). Students starting from year two will edit some year one course to acquire basic principles to build on.
Additionally, the applicant must pass a selection interview conducted by the University.  
Other Diploma qualifications from elsewhere assessed as equivalent to HND may be similarly considered.

Mature Students’ Entry

Mature students’ entry avenues to tertiary education provide opportunities for people who could not do so earlier in their lives to further their education at the tertiary level after some years in the workplace. Such applicants should typically not exceed 5% (for Public Tertiary Educational Institutions) and 20% (for Private Tertiary Educational Institutions) of the total admissions of an institution each year. 
The applicant must be at least 25 years old and show proof of age with a birth certificate or any legitimate document proof of date of birth, which must be at least 25 years old at the time of application.
For admission into chartered institutions, applicants must pass Mature Students’ Entrance Examinations conducted by the institution itself (English Language, Mathematics, and an Aptitude Test).
In the case of a non-charted institution, the examinations will be moderated, and the marked scripts will be vetted by their Mentor institution. In place of such examinations, the applicant should show proof of credit in English Language and Mathematics in WASSCE or any other nationally recognised standard High School level examinations (for qualifications from countries outside WAEC’s aegis).
BACHELOR OF BIOLOGY EDUCATION (B.Ed.) (REGULAR) 

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION

The Bachelor of Biology Education (B.Ed.) degree is a comprehensive academic program meticulously designed to prepare science teachers for pre-tertiary and second-cycle schools. The program aims to provide a robust blend of scientific knowledge and educational expertise, equipping graduates with the skills required for effective teaching and academic leadership.

The B.Ed. Biology program integrates theoretical learning through lectures and seminars with practical training in teaching methodologies and hands-on internships. This dual approach ensures that students understand Biology principles and develop the pedagogical skills necessary for impactful classroom instruction.

Additionally, the program addresses current and emerging issues in Biology education, emphasising environmental relevance and the societal implications of scientific advancements. By exploring topical areas such as curriculum innovation, STEM education, and sustainability, students are prepared to adapt to the evolving demands of biology teaching.

This four-year program is carefully structured to train young men and women for careers in education and teaching. The curriculum balances foundational Biology courses with advanced education studies, fostering the development of competent, reflective, and innovative Biology educators capable of inspiring the next generation of learners.

Aims and Objectives:
Aims: The programme seeks to train competent Biology teachers for Senior High School (SHS).

Objectives:
The B. Ed (Science) programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

Equip students with theoretical and practical knowledge to be competent Biology teachers 
 help students design and use educational resources to improve the delivery of Biology
 Apply appropriate pedagogical values to the teaching of the facts and principles of Biology and its application in schools 
Develop innovative methods to moderate and facilitate instructional and other curriculum processes toward generating and validating scientific knowledge.
Enable students to acquire the facts and principles of Biology and its applications.
Equip students with skills to conduct research into the teaching and learning of Biology.
Entry requirements for admission of students:

Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations (SSSCE), West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) and General Business Certificate Examination (GBCE).
The general requirements for admission of WASSCE, SSSCE, and GBCE candidates to the first-degree programme are three (3) credit passes in three core subjects, and three (3) credit passes in three relevant elective subjects.
SSSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A-D)     in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
WASSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A1-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
GBCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics, General or Integrated Science plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advance Level Candidates
Passes in three (3) subjects (at least, one of the passes should be grade D or better). Also, the applicant must have had credit passes (Grade 6) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Science subject (for non-science students) and an Arts subject (for Science students).
Admission of Higher National Diploma (HND) Candidates to First Degree Programmes
Applicant must have graduated with a good HND certificate (i.e. at least 2nd Class Lower Division). In addition, the applicant must have acquired a 2-year post-HND qualification working experience. Institutions under mentorship will follow their Mentor Institutions’ practice with regard to entry levels for HND applicants.

HND and Teachers’ Diploma holders in science education with a Second Class (Lower Division) will be admitted into year two (Level 200). In contrast, graduates without science education and holders of Second Class (Lower Division) will be eligible for year one (Level 100). Students starting from year two will edit some year one course to acquire basic principles to build on.
Additionally, the applicant must pass a selection interview conducted by the University.  
Other Diploma qualifications from elsewhere assessed as equivalent to HND may be similarly considered.

Mature Students’ Entry
Mature students’ entry avenues to tertiary education provide opportunities for people who could not do so earlier in their lives to further their education at the tertiary level after some years in the workplace. Such applicants should typically not exceed 5% (for Public Tertiary Educational Institutions) and 20% (for Private Tertiary Educational Institutions) of the total admissions of an institution each year. 

The applicant must be at least 25 years old and show proof of age with a birth certificate or any legitimate document proof of date of birth, which must be at least 25 years old at the time of application.
For admission into chartered institutions, applicants must pass Mature Students’Entrance Examinations conducted by the institution itself (English Language, Mathematics, and an Aptitude Test).
In the case of a non-charted institution, the examinations will be moderated, and the marked scripts will be vetted by their Mentor institution. In place of such examinations, the applicant should show proof of credit in English Language and Mathematics in WASSCE or any other nationally recognised standard High School level examinations (for qualifications from countries outside WAEC’s aegis).

BACHELOR OF CHEMISTRY EDUCATION (B.Ed.) (REGULAR) 

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION
The Bachelor of Chemistry Education (B.Ed.) degree is a comprehensive academic program meticulously designed to prepare science teachers for pre-tertiary and second-cycle schools. The program aims to provide a robust blend of scientific knowledge and educational expertise, equipping graduates with the skills required for effective teaching and academic leadership. The B.Ed. Chemistry program integrates theoretical learning through lectures and seminars with practical training in teaching methodologies and hands-on internships. 
This dual approach ensures that students understand Chemistry principles and develop the pedagogical skills necessary for impactful classroom instruction.

Additionally, the program addresses current and emerging issues in Chemistry education, emphasising environmental relevance and the societal implications of scientific advancements. By exploring topical areas such as curriculum innovation, STEM education, and sustainability, students are prepared to adapt to the evolving demands of biology teaching.

This four-year program is carefully structured to train young men and women for careers in education and teaching. The curriculum balances foundational Chemistry courses with advanced education studies, fostering the development of competent, reflective, and innovative Chemistry educators capable of inspiring the next generation of learners.

Aims and Objectives:
Aims: The programme seeks to train competent Chemistry teachers for Senior High School (SHS).

Objectives:
The B. Ed (Science) programme seeks to achieve the following objectives:

Equip students with theoretical and practical knowledge to be competent Chemistry teachers 
help students design and use educational resources to improve the delivery of Chemistry
Apply appropriate pedagogical values to the teaching of the facts and principles of Chemistry and its application in schools 
Develop innovative methods to moderate and facilitate instructional and other curriculum processes toward generating and validating scientific knowledge.
Enable students to acquire the facts and principles of Chemistry and its applications.
Equip students with skills to conduct research into the teaching and learning of Chemistry.
Entry requirements for admission of students:
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations (SSSCE), West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) and General Business Certificate Examination (GBCE).

The general requirements for admission of WASSCE, SSSCE, and GBCE candidates to the first-degree programme are three (3) credit passes in three core subjects, and three (3) credit passes in three relevant elective subjects.

SSSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A-D)     in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
WASSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A1-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.
GBCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language, Mathematics, General or Integrated Science plus three (3) relevant elective subjects.

General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advance Level Candidates
Passes in three (3) subjects (at least, one of the passes should be grade D or better). Also, the applicant must have had credit passes (Grade 6) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Science subject (for non-science students) and an Arts subject (for Science students).

Admission of Higher National Diploma (HND) Candidates to First Degree Programmes
Applicant must have graduated with a good HND certificate (i.e. at least 2nd Class Lower Division). In addition, the applicant must have acquired a 2-year post-HND qualification working experience. Institutions under mentorship will follow their Mentor Institutions’ practice with regard to entry levels for HND applicants.

HND and Teachers’ Diploma holders in science education with a Second Class (Lower Division) will be admitted into year two (Level 200). In contrast, graduates without science education and holders of Second Class (Lower Division) will be eligible for year one (Level 100). Students starting from year two will edit some year one course to acquire basic principles to build on.
Additionally, the applicant must pass a selection interview conducted by the University.  
Other Diploma qualifications from elsewhere assessed as equivalent to HND may be similarly considered.

Mature Students’ Entry
Mature students’ entry avenues to tertiary education provide opportunities for people who could not do so earlier in their lives to further their education at the tertiary level after some years in the workplace. Such applicants should typically not exceed 5% (for Public Tertiary Educational Institutions) and 20% (for Private Tertiary Educational Institutions) of the total admissions of an institution each year. 

The applicant must be at least 25 years old and show proof of age with a birth certificate or any legitimate document proof of date of birth, which must be at least 25 years old at the time of application.
For admission into chartered institutions, applicants must pass Mature Students’ Entrance Examinations conducted by the institution itself (English Language, Mathematics, and an Aptitude Test).
In the case of a non-charted institution, the examinations will be moderated, and the marked scripts will be vetted by their Mentor institution. In place of such examinations, the applicant should show proof of credit in English Language and Mathematics in WASSCE or any other nationally recognised standard High School level examinations (for qualifications from countries outside WAEC’s aegis).
 

B.   NYANKPALA CAMPUS

FACULTY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND CONSUMER SCIENCES

The Faculty of Agriculture Food and consumer sciences offers different programmes for both Ghanaian and International applicants. There are general and programme-specific entry requirements into the Faculty. 
These requirements are specified below. 

DIPLOMA PROGRAMMES

General Entry Requirements for Diploma Programmes
Candidates who do not meet the requirements for Degree programmes are advised to apply for any of the Diploma programmes. To be admitted into a Diploma programme, applicants must have credit passes in English Language and Mathematics plus credit passes in any three other subjects in SSSCE/WASSCE.  

Applicants without a credit pass in English Language and Mathematics (core) need not apply directly for the Diploma. They must first apply to be admitted to the Access programme run by the Institute for Distance and Continuing Learning. They will go through mandatory six-week lectures in the affected subjects, after which they will be examined. After the examination, applicants who meet the minimum pass mark will be admitted to the diploma programmes.  

The Diploma programmes offered by the faculty are:

Diploma in Agriculture Technology
Diploma in Family and Consumer Sciences
Diploma in Agricultural Education
Diploma in Agribusiness 
Diploma in Food Science and Technology
General Entry Requirements for Degree Programmes
The general admission requirement for WASSCE holders seeking admission into Degree programmes is at least C6 in all three Core and Elective subjects. WASSCE holders with Grades D7, E8 or F9 in any of their three Core or Elective subjects are advised not to apply for a degree programme. The total aggregate for degree applicants should be 36 or better for WASSCE and 24 or better for SSSCE.

Candidates holding an HND with Second Class Upper or better would be admitted into Level 100, 200 or 300 after successfully going through an interview with the faculty. Placement in the programme shall depend on the alignment of their programme of study at the HND level with the specific programmes in the faculty. 

Accredited Diploma holders, rather than graduates from UDS with at least credit, would be admitted into Level 200 depending upon the alignment of their programme of study at the Diploma level with the specific programmes in the faculty. They must go through a mandatory interview before admission is offered. 

Mature applicants must be 25 years or older to be qualified for admission.  They are required to have five passes in WASSCE/SSCE, including English Language and Mathematics.  They are expected to pass an examination and selection interview to be conducted by the faculty.

DEGREE PROGRAMMES

BSc. Agriculture Technology
BSc. Agriculture Technology with options in Agricultural Economics, Agricultural Innovation Communication, Agricultural Mechanization & Irrigation Technology, Animal Science, Agricultural Biotechnology, Crop Science, Horticulture and Soil Science is available for General Science and General Agriculture students.

BSc. Agribusiness
BSc. Agribusiness has options in Agricultural & Resource Economics, Agribusiness Management & Finance, and Agricultural Administration.

BSc. Family & Consumer Sciences
BSc. Family & Consumer Sciences has options in Food and Nutrition, Clothing and Textiles, Tourism and Hospitality Management, and Human Development and Child Studies. Applicants with a home economics background have an added advantage regarding admission.

BSc. Food Science and Technology
This programme is for science-based SSCE/WASSCE holders.  Applicants with three (3) credit passes in core subjects (Mathematics, English Language and Integrated Science) and three (3) credit passes in the elective subjects (Science and General Agriculture only). 

BSc. Food Systems
BSc. Food Systems is a four-year programme for science and non-science students. Applicants must satisfy the admission requirements to be admitted to the programme.

B.Ed. Agricultural Science
Applicants with three (3) credit passes in core subjects (Mathematics, English Language and Integrated Science) and three (3) credit passes in the elective subjects (Science and General Agriculture only).

B.Ed. Family and Consumer Science
Applicants with three (3) credit passes in core subjects (Mathematics, English Language and Integrated Science) and three (3) credit passes in the elective subjects (Science, arts and home economics).

BSc. Agricultural and Food Economics
SSSCE/WASSCE holders seeking admission into BSc. Agricultural and Food Economics must have at least C6 (WASSCE candidates) or D (SSSCE candidates) in all three Core and three Elective Subjects (Science and General Agriculture). 

 

FACULTY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT
 
The following regular undergraduate and postgraduate programmes are currently offered by the Faculty of Natural Resources and Environment (FNRE):

Undergraduate programmes

4-Year BSc. Biodiversity Conservation 
4-Year BSc. Ecotourism and Hospitality Management
4-Year BSc Natural Resources Management
4-Year BSc. Environmental Management and Sustainability
4-Year BSc. Forest Resource Conservation and Management
2-Year Diploma in Natural Resources Management

BSc. Biodiversity Conservation

Brief Description
The variability of life on Earth is called Biodiversity. Biodiversity takes into account all the living organisms present on Earth. Healthy and good biodiversity indicate a healthy and good ecosystem. A healthy ecosystem also includes the availability of pure water, pure air, healthy land, a good climate, and the availability of nutrients on Earth. Therefore, biodiversity conservation plays an important role in the quality of life of all living organisms. Biodiversity Conservation involves protection, restoration, and management of biological resources in order to derive sustainable benefits for present and future generations. Ghana is endowed with a wide range of biological resources which are exploited without recourse to their sustainability. The main aim of this programme is to train and strengthen the existing manpower with the requisite skills to manage these resources in a way that allows for continual use without depletion. 

Qualification/Entry requirements

WASSCE or SSSCE 
Applicant must have passes (A1-C6 in WASSCE or A-D in SSSCE) in 3 Elective Subjects as in the following categories. In addition, applicants must also have passes in 3 Core Subjects (English, Mathematics, Integrated Science or Social Studies).

Elective subject Categories

Category A	Category B	Category C
Chemistry	General Agriculture	Geography
Biology	Horticulture/Animal Husbandry	Economics
Physics/Elective Mathematics	Chemistry/Physics/Elective Mathematics	Elective Mathematics
 

HND and other Diploma holders in science related fields such as Agriculture, Forestry, Wildlife, Fisheries, or Natural Resources Management from a recognized institution with at least a Second Class Lower or better would be admitted into Level 200. Candidates with Third Class or Pass would be considered for admission after going through a selection interview.

Mature Applicants
Eligible applicants for the Mature Entry must meet the following criteria:

Be 25 years or above by the start of the academic year of application for entry. Proof of age should be shown with birth certificate or any legitimate documentary proof of date of birth which is at least 5 years old at the time.
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders must have passes or better (A to E) in English Language and Mathematics (Core) plus any other credit passes in three elective subjects.
West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) holders must have passes or better (A1 to D7) in English Language and Mathematics (Core) plus any other credits in three elective subjects.
Candidates would be expected to write and pass both a selection examination and an interview to be conducted by the University.
Only candidates who pass the selection examination and interview will be admitted to pursue the degree programme.
Cut off point
Applicants with aggregate 36 or better qualify to be admitted into this programme. This follows the university guidelines of minimum passes in three core and three elective subjects of C6 or better. The three core subjects include Mathematics, English Language and Integrated Science. 
Note: Social studies is not a prerequisite for applicants to access this programme.

BSc. Ecotourism and Hospitality Management

Brief Description
The BSc. Ecotourism and Hospitality programme recognises that the tourism and hospitality resources, activities and products in Ghana have not been fully exploited for the socioeconomic benefit of the nation. Among the reasons that account for this is the lack of efficient management of tourism sites and facilities, and the ineffective marketing of tourism sites, products and services. The country is endowed with a wide stock of tourism and ecotourism sites including many other unexplored potential sites. However, the necessary manpower to manage these potential and existing sites, especially in the Northern sector of Ghana, needs to be strengthened, especially for tourism resources at the community level. This programme therefore aims to train the needed manpower to identify these ecotourism resources, and manage them in a sustainable manner in conjunction with other stakeholders. 
The pursuit of tourism is also largely dependent on the availability and efficiency of ancillary facilities and services such as accommodation, food and beverage, transportation, tourist information, and tour guiding services. The programme also trains students to be able to manage accommodation, catering, food and beverage, and related services. 

Qualification/prerequisites 

WASSCE graduates with backgrounds in geography, science, agricultural science, and home sciences, with the requisite passes. 
Polytechnic graduates of HND or other related diploma programmes.  
Diploma graduates from other diploma awarding institutions with requisite passes. 
Diploma holders from UDS-run programmes as well as those from other Universities which are related or relevant to the programme. 
Mature candidates (25 years and above) may also apply and be considered on an individual basis.
Cut off point 
The cut off point follows the university guidelines of a minimum of passes in three core and three elective subjects of C6 or better. The three core subjects include Mathematics, English Language and Integrated Science. Social studies may be substituted in cases where a better grade in social studies may allow the candidate to meet a cutoff grade (if any).

B.Sc. Natural Resources Management

Brief description 
Natural resources management entails the stewardship of forest, water and mineral resources towards equitable utilisation for sustainable social, economic and environmental benefits. The BSc programme in Natural Resources Management confront students with the competing interest for resource conservation and development in space and over time. It provides students with the theoretical background and hands-on experience to proffer and implement solutions to complex problems like climate change, forest degradation, unsustainable mining and pollution and biodiversity declines. 

Qualification/prerequisites  
WASSCE or SSSCE 
Passes (A1-C6 in WASSCE or A-D in SSSCE) in 3 Elective Subjects as in the following categories below:

Category A	Category B	Category C
Chemistry	General Agriculture	Geography
Biology	Horticulture/Animal Husbandry	Economics
Physics	Chemistry/Physics	Elective Mathematics
(Must have C4 or better in Integrated Science)

In addition, applicants in the above categories must also have passes in 3 Core Subjects (English, Mathematics, Integrated Science or Social Studies)
A score of D7 or E8 in any subject for WASSCE is not considered.

Applicants with HND
HND in Agriculture or Science/Tourism/Hospitality Management or Diploma in Forestry, Wildlife, Fisheries, or Natural Resources Management from a recognized University or an academic institution. Candidates with Second Class Lower or better in related programmes would be admitted into Level 200. Those with Third Class or Pass would be considered for admission to level 100 through a selection interview. 

Mature Applicants
Eligible applicants for the Mature Entry must meet the following criteria:

Be 25 years or above by the start of the academic year of application for entry (August). Proof of age should be shown with birth certificate or any legitimate documentary proof of date of birth which is at least 5 years old at the time
Have passes in five G.C.E. ‘O’ Level subjects including English Language,
Mathematics/Statistics and Science.
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders must have passes or better (A to E) in English Language and Mathematics (Core) plus any other credit passes in three elective subjects.
West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), holders must have passes or better (A1 to D7) in English Language and Mathematics (Core) plus any other credits in three elective subjects.
Candidates would be expected to write and pass both a selection examination and an interview to be conducted by the University.
Only candidates who pass the selection examination and interview will be admitted to pursue the degree programme.
Cut off point 
Applicants with aggregate 36 or better qualify to be admitted into this programme. This follows the university guidelines of minimum passes in three core and three elective subjects of C6 or better. The three core subjects include Mathematics, English Language and Integrated Science. 
Note: Social studies is not a prerequisite for applicants to access this programme.

BSc. Environmental Management and Sustainability

The programme seeks to train students to understand the tenets of sustainability and apply it in the management of the environment and natural resources. Students will be equipped to think critically of environmental challenges and to proffer effective strategies for addressing the challenges confronting Ghana, the West African sub-region and the world at large.

Qualification/Prerequisite
This programme is for General Science and General Arts students. The general requirements for admission for West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) and the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) to first Degree programmes are three (3) credit passes in three core subjects and three (3) credit passes in three relevant elective subjects. 

The subject requirements are:

Core:                 
English Language, Mathematics (Core) and Integrated Science or Social studies

Electives:
As offered by General Arts and General Science programmes such as Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Agricultural science, Geography, Economics, Government, History, Elective Mathematics    
        
SSSCE Candidates: 
Credit Passes (A-D) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) elective subjects in the Sciences or Arts. Candidates with Arts background are required to pass either Economics or Geography and any other two electives.

WASSCE Candidates: 
Credit Passes (A1-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) elective subjects in the Sciences or Arts. Candidates with Arts background are required to pass either Economics or Geography and any other two electives. 

A’ Level Candidates: 
Passes in three (3) subjects (at least, one of the passes should be Grade D or better). Also, the applicant must have had credit passes (Grade 6) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and a Science subject (for non-science students) and an Arts subject (for science students).

HND and Diploma Holders:
HND and Diploma Holders in the relevant field from a recognised institution who possess at least a:
Second Class Lower or better in related programmes would be admitted into Level 200;
Third Class or Pass would be considered for admission to Level 100.
Candidates would be required to pass a selection interview to be conducted by the University. 

Mature Applicants:

Applicant must be at least 25 years old, and show proof of age with birth certificate or any legitimate documentary proof of date of birth which is at least 5 years old at the time of application
Applicant must pass Mature Students’ Entrance Examinations conducted by the UDS. The applicant should show proof of credit passes in English Language and Mathematics in WASSCE or any other nationally recognised standard High School level examinations (for qualifications from countries outside WAEC’s aegis). 
Cut off point
Applicants with aggregate 36 or better qualify to be admitted into this programme. This follows the university guidelines of minimum passes in three core and three elective subjects of C6 or better. 

BSc. Forest Resources Conservation and Management 

Brief description
The BSc. Forest Resource Conservation and Management Programme is hosted by the Department of Forestry and Forest Resources Management, under the Faculty of Natural Resources and Environment. The four-year programme is aimed at: producing undergraduates with a good Knowledge, entrepreneurial orientation and requisite skills of the underlying principles to forest management, forest ecology and natural resource extension as well theoretical and practical skills in agroforestry, woodland management and plantation forestry to complement the human resources needs of the Forestry Commission, private plantation developers in contributing to sustainable forest conservation.    

Qualification/prerequisites 
Applicants must satisfy the UDS general entry requirements for admission into undergraduate degree programme.

SSSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A-D) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) science related elective subjects.

WASSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A1-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) science related elective subjects.

Elective subject Categories

Category A	Category B	Category C
Chemistry	General Agriculture	Geography
Biology	Horticulture/Animal Husbandry	Economics
Physics/Elective Mathematics	Chemistry/Physics/Elective Mathematics	Elective Mathematics
HND and Diploma Holders
HND and Diploma Holders in science related fields from a recognized institution who possess at least a:

Second Class Lower or better in related programmes would be admitted into Level 200
Third Class or Pass would be considered for admission to Level 100. Such candidates would be required to pass a selection interview to be conducted by the University. 
Mature Applicants
Eligible applicants for the Mature Entry must meet the following criteria:

Be 25 years or above by the start of the academic year of application for entry. Proof of age should be shown with birth certificate or any legitimate documentary proof of date of birth which is at least 5 years old at the time.
Have passes in five G.C.E. ‘O’ Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics/Statistics and Science.
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders must have passes or better (A to E) in English Language and Mathematics (Core) plus any other credit passes in three elective subjects.
West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), holders must have passes or better (A1 to D7) in English Language and Mathematics (Core) plus any other credits in three elective subjects. 
Candidates would be expected to write and pass both a selection examination and an interview to be conducted by the University.
Only candidates who pass the selection examination and interview will be admitted to pursue the degree programme.
Cut off point 
Applicants with aggregate 36 or better qualify to be admitted into this programme. This follows the university guidelines of minimum passes in three core and three elective subjects of C6 or better. The three core subjects include Mathematics, English Language and Integrated Science. 
Note: Social studies is not a prerequisite for applicants to access this programme.

Diploma in Natural Resources Management

Brief description
The Diploma in Natural Resource Management programme offers middle level personnel with technical knowledge and skillset to monitor, analyse and design plans to utilise and manage land, water and mineral resources sustainably.

Qualification/prerequisites 
To be admitted into the Diploma programme, three credit passes in the area of specialization (elective subjects) and at least two passes (D7 or better) in core subjects including English Language and Mathematics in WASSCE is required. Preference will be given to candidates who have good grades/credit passes.

Cut off point 
The cut off point for the Diploma in Natural Resource Management follows the university guidelines of three credit passes in the area of specialization (elective subjects) and at least two passes (D7 or better) in core subjects including English Language and Mathematics in WASSCE. 
 

SCHOOL OF VETERINARY SCIENCES

Veterinary nurses play a critical role in the animal health industry, caring for sick, injured and hospitalised animals, and contributing to day-to-day care of animals. Some of these daily activities include preparing patients for surgical procedures, providing support to animals and their owners before and after operations, assisting in the operating theatre as a scrubbed veterinary nurse, carrying out veterinary nurse consultations, administering medications and fluid therapy to patients, observing and recording patients' vital signs (temperature, pulse, respiration and pain), applying bandages to wounds and fractures, educating animal owners on nutrition and preventative care and providing basic behavioural advice, among other functions. 

The BSc Veterinary Nursing programme at UDS is designed to produce veterinary nurses with the required knowledge and skills to undertake all the aforementioned activities and more, meaningfully, thereby contributing to animal health and production. Students will be exposed to practical training alongside classroom work. To achieve this, students are placed with designated clinics throughout the country as part of their Third Trimester Field Practical Programme (TTFPP) and also during the long vacation, alongside the practical lessons organized within in the course of the programme, providing an opportunity to develop your knowledge and skills within a real-life environment. During the final year of the programme, students will undertake a research project on an area of clinical and/or scientific interest.

Entry requirements for admission of students:
The programme is targeted at Senior High School graduates and diploma holders in relevant field of study from recognized institutions. 

WASSCE/SSSCE Applicants

The prospective student must have at least, credit (A1- C6 in WASSCE and A – D in SSSCE) in the following: 

Three core subjects (English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science/Social Studies).
Any three elective subjects from any of the combinations below:
Chemistry, Physics, Biology or Elective Mathematics
General Agriculture, Physics, and Chemistry
Aggregate Score of the best six subjects (three core and three electives) must not exceed 36 (for WASSCE scale) and 24 (for SSSCE scale). However, admissions will be on competitive basis, and various programmes offered in UDS have their cut-off points much lower than aggregate 36 for WASSCE (and 24 for SSSCE).
The duration of the course for WASSCE and SSSCE candidates shall be 4 years.
Diploma to Degree Applicants
Diploma in Animal Health or equivalent qualification from a recognized institution with strong animal health programmes may be considered.

Applicants must obtain a minimum of second class (upper division)
Additionally, applicants must have WASSCE/SSSCE passes in three (3) core subjects (including Mathematics and English language) and two (2) electives in General Science or Agricultural related subjects, or credit passes in five (5) subjects including English language, Science and Mathematics at the GCE ‘O’ level.
Diploma holders must additionally have a minimum of 2 years field experience.
Qualified applicants will be admitted to level 200 of the programme following a successful interview.
Certificate to Degree Applicants
Certificate in Animal Health or equivalent qualification from a recognized institution with strong animal health programmes may be considered.

Applicants must obtain a minimum of 80% average on the transcript.
Additionally, applicants must have WASSCE/SSSCE passes in three (3) core subjects (including Mathematics and English language) and two (2) electives in General Science or Agricultural related subjects, or credit passes in four (4) subjects including English language, Science and Mathematics at the GCE ‘O’ level.
Certificate holders must additionally have a minimum of 3 years field experience.
Qualified applicants will be admitted to level 100 of the programme following a successful interview.
For the sandwich course, only candidates with diploma from recognized institution shall be admitted. This will be a full fee-paying programme. 

Admission requirement will be as in 2 above.
Duration for sandwich programmes shall also be 3 years.
Mature Applicants

At the time of application, applicants must be at least 25 years of age.
Applicants must obtain a minimum of credit in at least three (3) electives (General Science or Agricultural related) and passes in 2 core subjects at WASSCE/SSSCE/’O’ levels
Additionally, candidates must pass an admission interview and entrance examinations (General Knowledge, English Language and Mathematics) conducted by the University.
Qualified applicants will be admitted to level 100 of the programme
 

SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS 

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS

BSc.  ECONOMICS (4 Years)

The BSc. Economics degree programme is designed to produce graduates     with a strong understanding of quantitative techniques and the conceptual underpinnings of microeconomic and macroeconomic theory and how they can be applied to the analysis of emerging economic challenges so as to provide innovative solutions.

Admission requirements

WASSCE/ SSSCE- Applicants
At least a credit pass (WASSCE: A1-C6; SSSCE: A-D) in three core and three electives’ subjects. The core subjects are English Language, Mathematics (Core) and Integrated Science / Social Studies. The best six subjects' aggregate scores (three core and three electives) must not exceed 36 and 24 for WASSCE and SSSCE, respectively. 

Applicants with three credit passes in the area of specialization (elective subjects) and at least two passes (D7 or better) in English Language and Mathematics will be considered for the Diploma version of the programme.

A’ level Applicants
For A’ level applicants, candidates must have at least five (5) credits at the O’ Level which must include Mathematics, English and Science (for non-science students) and an Arts subject (for science students) and passes in three (3) subjects including Economics (at least, one of the passes should be Grade D or better) at A’ Level.

HND/Diploma Applicants 
HND holders with relevant background who have completed with First Class and Second Class (Upper Division) may be admitted into Second Year of the Programme without an interview, whiles holders of HND with different background may be considered for Second year after passing an interview. Two-year Diploma holders may also be admitted into second year.

Mature Applicants 
Mature Applicants must have attained the age of 25years or above and show proof of age with birth certificate. Must have credit passes in SSSCE/WASSCE/O’ Level Mathematics and English or any other nationally recognised standard High School level examination (for qualifications from countries outside WAEC aegis) and having relevant working experience. Must also pass a written examination and an interview to be conducted by the school. 

Foreign Applicants 
Foreign students may be admitted on the basis of qualification from their home country for which the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission has determined equivalence. Evidence of proficiency in English Language will be required in the case of applicants from non-English speaking countries. 

 

FACULTY OF COMMUNICATION AND MEDIA STUDIES

Diploma in Social Change Communication 
BSc Social Change Communication
BA Journalism Studies
BA French
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION, INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY

Diploma in Social Change Communication 
BSc Social Change Communication
                                                                                         
Minimum Requirements for the Diploma/BSc programmes:

Pass the Senior High School final certificate examination (SSSCE/WASSCE) with credit (A-D/A1-C5) in English Language, Core Mathematics, Social Studies, or Integrated Science and three elective subjects in Literature in English, Economics, Government, Geography, or any other relevant subject with an aggregate score of 24 or better.
Diploma holders with communication and media backgrounds may be admitted to level 200.
HND holders with communication and media backgrounds may be admitted to level 300 if they have first-class or a strong upper division.
Mature applicants must be 25 years and above and pass the department's relevant entry exam and interview. Such applicants would be admitted to level 100. 
All foreign qualifications would be referred to GTEC for evaluation before being considered for admission to the appropriate level.
DEPARTMENT OF JOURNALISM AND MEDIA STUDIES

4-Year BA Journalism Studies

Minimum Requirements for the BA programme:

Pass the Senior High School final certificate examination (SSSCE/WASSCE) with credit (A-D/A1-C5) in English Language, Core Mathematics, Social Studies, or Integrated Science and three elective subjects in Literature in English, Economics, Government, Geography, or any other relevant subject with an aggregate score of 24 or better.
Diploma holders with communication and media backgrounds may be admitted to level 200.
HND holders with journalism, communication and media backgrounds may be admitted to level 300 if they have first-class or strong upper division.
Mature applicants must be 25 years and above and pass the department's relevant entry exam and interview. Such applicants would be admitted to level 100. 
All foreign qualifications would be referred to GTEC for evaluation before being considered for admission to the appropriate level.
DEPARTMENT OF LANGUAGES

4-Year BA French

Minimum Requirements for the BA programme:

Pass the Senior High School final certificate examination (SSSCE/WASSCE) with credit (A-D/A1-C5) in English Language, Core Mathematics, Social Studies, or Integrated Science and three elective subjects in Literature in English, Economics, Government, Geography, or any other relevant subject with an aggregate score of 24 or better.
Diploma holders with language, communication and media backgrounds may be admitted to level 200.
HND holders with language (French) backgrounds may be admitted to level 300 if they have first-class or strong upper division.
Mature applicants must be 25 years and above and pass the department's relevant entry exam and interview. Such applicants would be admitted to level 100. 
All foreign qualifications would be referred to GTEC for evaluation before being considered for admission to the appropriate level.
 

FACULTY OF BIOSCIENCES

DEPARTMENT OF AQUACULTURE AND FISHERIES SCIENCES

1.  Diploma (Dip.) in Aquaculture and Fisheries Science

Brief Description: 
Diploma in Aquaculture and Fisheries Science is a 2-year programme, aimed at training middle-skilled manpower with in-depth underlying principles and practices related to aquaculture, aquatic ecology, fisheries and extension capabilities. The overall target is to increase domestic fish production to offset the import of fish and fishery products and develop/transform the fisheries and aquaculture sector into a viable economic segment to contribute to national development.

Entry requirements:
Applicants must have at least two passes (D7 or better) in English Language and Mathematics in WASSCE or at least two passes (E or better) in English Language and Mathematics in SSSCE. Any candidate without a pass in English Language and Mathematics (core) should not apply for the Diploma. Applicants must have at least three credits passes in their elective subjects indicated in the following categories:

Category A Category B Category C
Chemistry General Agriculture Geography
Fisheries/ Biology, Horticulture/ Animal Husbandry, Elective Mathematics/ Physics
Physics. Chemistry/ Physics, Economics
Elective, Mathematics, Biology

Preference will be given to candidates who have good grades/ credit passes.

2.  Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Aquaculture and Fisheries Science

Brief Description:
BSc Aquaculture and Fisheries Science is a 4-year programme which aims at producing undergraduates with an in-depth understanding of the underlying principles related to aquaculture, aquatic ecology and extension capabilities. Trainees would be equipped with skills in aquaculture production systems and engineering as well as fish farming to complement fish production from the ocean. In addition, the programme aims to produce fisheries and aquaculture extension officers for the Fisheries Commission, Ministry of Fisheries and Aquaculture Development and other private fish farms in Ghana.

Entry Requirements:

WASSCE Holders
WASSCE holders seeking admission must have at least C6 in all their three Core and three Elective Subjects. This programme is for Pure Science, Agricultural Science and some General Arts (WASSCE) holders. Passes (A1 – C6 in WASSCE or A – D in SSSCE) in 3 Elective Subjects as in the following categories below:

Category A Category B Category C
Chemistry General Agriculture Geography
Fisheries/ Biology, Horticulture/ Animal Husbandry, Elect. Maths/Physics
Physics Chemistry/ Physics, Economics
Elective Maths, Biology

HND and Diploma Holders
HND and Diploma Holders in the relevant field from a recognised institution who possess at
least a: Second Class Lower or better in related programmes would be admitted into Level
200; Third Class or Pass would be considered for admission to Level 100.

Mature Applicants
Be 25 years or above by August 31.
Have passes in five (5) G.C.E. ‘O’ Level subjects including English Language, Mathematic/Statistics and Science. Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders must have passes or better (A – E) in English Language and Mathematics (Core) plus any other credit passes in three elective subjects. West Africa Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), holders must have passes or better (A1 – C6) in English Language and Mathematics (Core) plus any other credit passes in three elective subjects. Candidates would be expected to write and pass both a selection exam and a interview to be conducted by the University. Only candidates who obtain satisfactory marks in the selection examination and interview will be admitted to pursue the degree programme.

DEPARTMENT OF BIOTECHNOLOGY AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY

1. Programme: BSc Biotechnology and Molecular Biology
The programme provides theoretical and practical education sufficiently broad in both fundamental principles and innovative practices in the subject of biotechnology and molecular biology to enable students apply their knowledge proficiently in the relevant industries. 

Entry requirements for Aadmission:

Passes (A1 – C6 in WASSCE or A – D in SSCE) in three Elective subjects: Physics, Chemistry and Biology; and three core subjects (English, Mathematics and Integrated Science). Mature candidates or diploma graduates in the applied sciences with passes in core-sciences or their related courses, and English are also eligible. Diploma in Biotechnology/Biology/Biological Sciences or related fields and Higher National Diploma (HND) graduates with at least 2nd Class Upper in any Biological Sciences or related field will be admitted to the programme from second year. 

DEPARTMENT OF FORENSIC SCIENCES

1.  Programme: Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Forensic Science

Brief description:
The BSc in Forensic Science is a 4-year degree programme geared towards producing competent forensic science graduates with excellent technical and problem-solving skills and a broad background that would allow them to pursue careers in forensic science and related disciplines readily. This is to support the justice delivery system in Ghana and beyond the West African sub-region in answering criminal or civil questions.

Admission Requirements:

SSSCE Applicants
Credit Pass (A–D) in three Elective subjects: Physics, Chemistry, Biology/General
Agriculture, Mathematics; and three core subjects in English, Mathematics, and
Integrated Science or Social Studies.

WASSCE Applicants
Credit Passes (A1–C6) in three Elective subjects: Physics, Chemistry,
Biology/General Agriculture, Mathematics; and three core subjects in English,
Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies.

‘A’ LEVEL; Certificate Applicants with passes in subjects related to science will
be admitted.

HND/Diploma Applicants
Diploma or HND in Biotechnology/Biology/Biological Sciences or related fields and with at least 2nd Class Upper will be eligible for admission to Level 200.

Mature Applicants
Mature candidates age 25 and above with background in applied sciences with passes in core sciences or their related courses, and English will be eligible. Mature candidates upon satisfying the above requirement may, in addition, be required to write and pass an entrance examination or an interview or both as organised by the University. Mature applicants from the security services will also be considered for the programme upon successful passing of an interview.

D: DEPARTMENT OF MICROBIOLOGY

Programme: Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Microbiology

Brief Description 
The BSc Microbiology programme offered in the Department of Microbiology is designed to train students to have a broad and solid knowledge of microorganisms, and to acquire analytical and practical skills to employ microbial technology in the development of innovative strategies that prevent, control and manage infectious diseases and harness the potential of microorganisms for sustainable development. The four-year programme is structured to provide students with cutting edge theoretical and practical training in microbial sciences for a career in microbiology, and introduce students to skills in research and their application in the various branches of microbiology which are relevant to the needs and challenges of the country.

Admission Requirements:

Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) and West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) Applicants: credit (A-D or 1-6 respectively) in the core subjects; English, Mathematics and Integrated Science, and in three elective subjects; Biology, Chemistry and either Physics or Mathematics.

‘A’ Level Applicants: five credits in the ‘O’ Level including English and Mathematics and passes in the ‘A’ Level or equivalent in any three of the following subjects: Chemistry, Zoology or Botany, Mathematics, Physics, Biology.

Higher National Diploma (HND)/Diploma Applicants: Higher National Diploma or Diploma in Biotechnology, Biological Sciences, Biology, Medical Laboratory Technician or related subjects in 2nd Class Lower or better division would be considered for admission into the second year of the programme. Applicants in the 3rd Class or Pass division would be considered for admission into the first year of the programme after passing a written examination and an interview.

Mature Applicants: applicants must be at least 25 years old at the time of application and must have either five credits at the O’ Level including English Language and Mathematics or WASSCE/SSSCE credits in three elective subjects including Biology, Chemistry and either Physics or Mathematics. Applicants must also pass a written examination and an interview.

Foreign Applicants: qualification equivalent to WASSCE, SSSCE or O/A Level requirements that qualify Ghanaian applicants for admission. Foreign applicants must also present a certification of English proficiency if they are not from a country that has English as the official language. Certificates and results transcripts of foreign applicants must be translated into English.
The cut-off point for admission into the BSc Microbiology programme is     aggregate     15.

DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES

Programme: Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Biological Science

Brief Description:
The programme seeks to attract holders of all secondary and post-secondary education certificates (see details below) who meet the admission requirements. Enrollment will be open to both local and foreign nationals. 

Entry Requirements:

WASSCE holders
Candidates seeking admission into the BSc Biological Sciences programme must have at least C6 in all three core and elective science subjects, including biology. 

SSSCE/WASSCE holders 
Credit passes (A-D) in core English, core Mathematics and Integrated Science and any three elective science subjects, including biology with an aggregate score of 18 or better.

Higher National Diploma and other Diploma 
Applicants seeking admission to the programme should possess at least a: Second Class Lower or better in related biological sciences programmes and be admitted into Level 200. Third Class or Pass would be considered for admission to Level 100. These Third Class or Pass candidates would be required to pass a written examination and interview to be conducted by the University.

A-Level Certificate Applicants 
must have passes in three (3) subjects one of which should be biology (at least one of the passes should be Grade D or better). Besides, the applicant must have had credit passes (Grade 6) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects (or its equivalent), including English Language, Mathematics. A pass in General Paper must also be obtained.

Mature Applicants 
Mature Applicants must have attained the age of 25 years or above with passes in WASSCE/SSSCE/O" Level Mathematics, English and Biology and relevant working experience. They must also pass a written examination and interview conducted by the University.

Foreign Students 
International students may be admitted based on qualification from their home country for which the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission (GTEC) shall determine equivalence. Evidence of proficiency in English Language will be required in the case of applicants from non-English speaking countries.

The applicant must have qualifications equivalent to WASSCE, SSSCE, HND, or GCE "A" Level to be considered for admission or any other nationally recognized standard High School level examinations (for qualifications from countries outside WAEC's jurisdiction).
Applicants may also be required to pass an entrance examination and an interview.

DEPARTMENT OF BIOCHEMISTRY 

Programme: Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Biochemistry

Brief Description:
The BSc in Biochemistry Programme is structured to produce graduates with in-depth understanding of the chemical and molecular principles governing complex biological systems and their applications to industry, health and community development.

Entry requirements:
The general requirements for admission for West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) and the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) to first Degree programnes are three (3) credit passes in three core subjects and three (3) credit passes in three relevant elective subjects. This programme is for General Science Students. The subject requirements are:English Language, Mathematics (Core) and Integrated Science. Electives as offered by General Science programmes such as Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Agricultural science, Geography, Mathematics (elective).

Passes in three (3) science subjects (at least, one of the passes should be Grade D or better) for A-level candidates. Besides, the applicant must have had credit passes (Grade 6) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects (or its equivalent) including English Language, Mathematics and an Arts subject. A pass in General Paper must also be obtained.

HND holders in Biochemistry/Biotechnology/Biology/Biological Science or related fields and with 2rd Class Lower or better are eligible for admission to level 200. Third class and pass would be required to pass a written examination and interview to be conducted by the University.

Mature Applicants must have attained the age of 25years or above with passes in SSSCE/O‟ Level Mathematics, English and Biology/Chemistry and relevant working experience. They must also pass a written examination and interview conducted by the University.

 

FACULTY OF SOCIAL SCIENCES 

DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE

BA POLITICAL SCIENCE

Admission Requirement
In addition to the minimum university entry requirements, candidates seeking admission into the first year of the four-year undergraduate degree programme in Political Science must satisfy the following:

Pass the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) with credit passes (A-D) in English Language, Core Mathematics, Social Studies or Integrated Science, plus three relevant elective subjects.    
Pass the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) with credit passes (A1-C6) in English Language, Core Mathematics, Social Studies or Integrated Science, plus three relevant elective subjects.
In the case of sports men and women, pass the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) with credit passes (C6 – D) in English Language, Core Mathematics, Social Studies or Integrated Science, plus three relevant elective subjects.
Pass the General Business Certificate Examination (GBCE) with credit passes (A-D) in English Language, Core Mathematics, Social Studies or Integrated Science, plus three relevant elective subjects.
Pass the General Certificate of Education (GCE)-Advanced Level with credit passes (Grade 6) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects, including English Language, Mathematics and a Science subject (for non-science students) and an Arts subject (for science students), plus passes in three GCE Advanced level subjects (at least one of the passes should be Grade D or better).
A good pass in Higher National Diploma (HND) - (i.e. at least 2nd Class Lower Division), including a 2-year post-HND qualification working experience. In addition, Diploma qualifications from elsewhere assessed to be equivalent to HND may be considered.
A full Diploma Certificate in Advanced Business Certificate Examination (ABCE) with credit passes in five (5) subjects including English Language, Mathematics, Integrated Science 
Mature Students (at least 25 years old) with politics, governance and development background, including English and Mathematics.
PROGRAMME TITLE: B.A. Sociology

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRAMME: Sociology studies the social relationships among groups and how that brings about change in society. The discipline is concerned with social relationships not because they are economic, political, religion or legal but because they are at the same time social.  These relations combine to build up smaller or greater systems to respond to changes and changing needs or demands of the people in the society. The study of sociology bears upon many of the problems of Ghana and other parts of the world and will assume such a great relevance within the social sciences. This scientific knowledge about human society is needed in Ghana to achieve progress in various fields (GSAA, 2022). The Programme will delve deeply into the social nature of man. It will tell us why man is a social animal, why he lives in a group, communities and societies. It will examine the relationship between individual and society, the impact of society on the individual and other related matters that are of relevance to a society like Ghana. Within sociology, various social institutions (e.g. religion, marriage, economic, health, education, and politics) are studied scientifically. The Ghanaian society with its associated problems can be solved through the scientific study (GSS, 2020) of the society. It is the task of the sociologists to study these social problems through the methods of scientific research to find solutions to them.

AIMS: The focus of the sociology programme in UDS will differ from those that are studied by the other sister Universities in Ghana, especially in building practical knowledge for graduates in sociology. The sociology student will be tasked to carry out a project during the Third Trimester Field Practical work in addition to the general task of Third Trimester Field Practical Program. As part of the Practical Training, students of this programme would liaise with cognate disciplines to interact with communities to undertake needs assessments, and communicate same to the appropriate Local Government units and stakeholders for an accelerated community development. In addition, with the ever-increasing population of Ghana according to the 2020 Population and Housing Census (GSS, 2020), both public and private universities offering sociology programmes are challenged to equally trained out adequate numbers of sociology graduates to commensurate with population increase in the country. Additionally, they are to demonstrate knowledge and skills by analysing sociological concepts, theories and their application in addressing social problems.  They are also expected to demonstrate the ability to interpret basic social processes, social institutions and pattern of social behaviour in the Society.

ADMISSION:
Candidates seeking admissions into the four (4) years Bachelor of Arts degree in Sociology must possess the following:

SSSCE candidates: Credit Passes (A-D) in Six (6) subjects (Three core including Mathematics, English and Integrated Science and any relevant three (3) electives subjects.
WASSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A1-C6) in Six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects (English and Mathematics and any three (3) electives.
Holders of General Certificate Examination (GCE) with passes in six (6) subjects. Applicants must pass with grade 6 in English and Mathematics.
Applicants with Advanced Level certificated (A’ Level) at least three passes with Grade D or better will be accepted.
Higher National Diploma candidates (HND) and any other diploma related to the field: First- and Second-Class applicants will be admitted into level 200 after passing an interview (oral/written) to be organised by the department.
Matured Students Admission Requirement: The applicant must be at least 25 years old and show evidence of their ages on either the birth certificate or the Ghana card or other legitimate document of proof. This category of applicants must also pass the examination to be organised by the department.
Advanced Business Certificates (ABC) holders are also eligible to apply for consideration for admission
                                                                           
BA-HISTORY

Candidates seeking admission into the first year of the four-year undergraduate degree programme in History must satisfy the following 

SSSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A-D) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects. 
WASSCE Candidates: Credit Passes (A1-C6) in six (6) subjects comprising three core subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, plus three (3) relevant elective subjects
Holders of General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level Candidates passes in three (3) subjects (at least, one of the passes should be Grade D or better). Also, the applicant must have had credit passes (Grade 6) in five GCE Ordinary Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics and a Science subject (for non-science students) and an Arts subject (for Science students).
Admission of Higher National Diploma (HND) Candidates to First Degree Programmes. 
Applicant must have graduated with a good HND certificate (i.e. at least 2nd Class Lower Division). In addition, the applicant must have acquired a 2-year post-HND qualification with working experience.
Other Diploma qualifications from elsewhere assessed to be equivalent to HND may be considered. 
Mature Students’ Entry Requirement: The applicant must be at least 25 years old and show proof of age with a birth certificate or any legitimate documentary proof of date of birth which is at least twenty-five years old at the time of application.  Applicant must pass Mature Students’ Entrance Examinations conducted by UDS (English Language).
 

SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING

BSc. Geological Engineering Programme (Cut-off: 24)

Brief description: 
The Geological Engineering programme of the University for Development Studies (UDS) seeks to contribute to the critical national efforts to sustainably harness the vast natural resources to improve the industrialization drive of Ghana by training students with the needed knowledge and skills in Geological Engineering and related disciplines. The Geological Engineering programme has a multi-faceted curriculum that leverages on myriads of fields including but not limited to mineral exploration, water resources engineering and management; geotechnical engineering; environmental site design, surface and subsurface contamination; petroleum exploration and production and geothermal energy etc. The programme is innovative and unique, as it exposes students to various computer-based (application software in geological engineering practices) subjects and French language from levels 100 to 400. Graduates of Geological Engineering may find employment in the mining industry; petroleum and oil industries; construction industries; water resources engineering and management; education and research institution local and international non-governmental organisations (NGOs).

Admission requirements
Eligible candidates for admission into the BSc Geological Engineering programme must be:

Regular/Direct Admissions
Applicants to be admitted directly into level 100 of the programme must have:

West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) with credit passes (C6, minimum) in three (3) core subjects namely; English Language, Integrated Science and Core Mathematics. They must also have a minimum of credit passes in three (3) elective subjects which must include Elective Mathematics. The other two elective subjects can be any of the following: Physics, Chemistry, Geography and Applied Electricity.
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) with passes of at least grade D in three core subjects namely; English Language, Core Science and Core Mathematics. They must also have a minimum of credit passes in three (3) elective subjects which must include Elective Mathematics. The other two elective subjects can be any of the following: Physics, Chemistry, Geography, and Applied Electricity.
GCE Advanced-level (A-level) candidates must have passes in Mathematics and Physics, Chemistry, Geography, Economics, Statistics in addition to the General paper.
Mature Applicants Admissions
Applicants must be at least 25 years of age and must have obtained:

Five credit passes in relevant WASSCE subjects and a pass grade in the sixth subject.
Five credit passes in relevant SSSCE subjects and a pass in the sixth subject. 
Five credit passes in GCE O-Level subjects including mathematics and English language
In addition to (i) or (ii), candidates must pass a written examination organized by the University and an oral interview.
Diploma Applicants Admissions

Diploma certificate with a CGPA of 3.50 (out of 5.0) or equivalent in Civil and Geomatic Engineering or other related disciplines from any recognized tertiary educational institution shall be admitted to level 200 after an oral interview.
Diploma certificate in Civil and Geomatic Engineering with a CGPA of at least 1.5 (out of 5.0) or equivalent but lower than 3.50 (out of 5.0) or equivalent from any recognized tertiary educational institution shall be admitted to level 100 after a selection interview.
Holder of HND certificate with a minimum of second class upper in Civil and Geomatic Engineering or other related disciplines from any recognized tertiary educational institution shall be admitted to level 200 of the programme after an oral interview.
HND certificate with a second lower division in Civil and Geomatic Engineering, or other related disciplines from any recognized tertiary educational institution shall be admitted to level 100. 
Foreign Applicants
Foreign applicants shall be admitted to the programme as above after due diligence has been done by evaluating the equivalences of their certificates and authenticity at GTEC. 

BSc. Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Programme (cut-off: 24)

Brief description: 
The BSc. Mechanical and Industrial Engineering programme is to train students in the various sub-disciplines of Mechanical Engineering to serve the product and service industry in Ghana and beyond, and also lay a strong foundation for future research and development towards accelerated national development. The main objective of the programme is to equip students with skills in products development; encourage research and development in advancing the frontiers of mechanical engineering for national development; provide entrepreneurial and management training skills to enable students start and setup their own enterprises, and to prepare students for future leadership roles in engineering to exercise original thought, good professional judgment and be responsible. Graduates of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering may find employment in the mining industry; manufacturing industry, power generation; automotive plant industry; oil and gas  industries; water production and distribution industries; entrepreneurship and management  education and research institutions as well as local and international non-governmental organisations (NGOs).

Admission requirements
Good passes at the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE), West African School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) and the General Certificate of Education (GCE Advanced level) would be accepted for admission into the programme.

SSSCE Holders 
SSSCE holders seeking admission into the programme must have at least D in all three (3) Core Subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science; and three (3) of the following Elective Subjects: Elective Mathematics; Chemistry, Physics; Technical Drawing; Auto Mechanics and Metal Work.

WASSCE Holders 
WASSCE holders seeking admission into the programme must have at least C6 in all three (3) Core Subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science; and three (3) of the following Elective Subjects: Chemistry, Elective Mathematics, Physics; Technical Drawing; Auto mechanics and Metal Work. 

General Certificate of Education (Advanced level GCE) 
Holders of GCE advanced level holders seeking admission into the programme must have Passes in three (3) of the following subjects: Chemistry, Mathematics/Statistics, Physics. (At least one of the passes should be Grade D or better). In addition, the applicant must have had credit passes (minimum of Grade 6) in five (5) GCE ordinary level subjects including English Language, Mathematics, Chemistry, Additional Mathematics/Physics/Technical Drawing/ Metal Work/Auto Mechanics. 

HND and other Diploma Holders Seeking Admission into the Degree Programme 
HND and other Diploma applicants seeking admission to the programme should possess at least

Second Class Lower or better in a Chemical/Biochemical Science or related programme (Such candidates shall be admitted into Level 200). 
Third Class or Pass in a Chemical/Biochemical Science or related programme would be considered for admission to Level 100. Candidates in Categories 1 and 2 above shall however be required to pass a selection interview to be conducted by the University.
Mature students 

Eligible applicants for the Mature Entry must meet the following criteria: 
Be 25 years or above by August 31, of the incoming academic year.
Have passes in five GCE ‘O’ Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics/Statistics and Science in addition to two GCE ‘A’ Level passes in Additional Mathematics plus one of Physics, Chemistry, Auto mechanics and Metal works.
Have at least two (2) years of relevant work experience in related field. 
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders must have passes (A to E) in Core subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science plus passes (A to D) in three elective subjects that include Elective Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, Technical Drawing, Auto Mechanics and Metal Works.
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders must have passes (A1- C6) in Core subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science plus passes (A1 to C6) in three elective subjects that include Elective Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, Technical Drawing, Auto Mechanics and Metal Works. 
Candidates seeking admission through Matured Entry shall write and pass both a selection examination and interview to be conducted by the University.
Only candidates who obtain satisfactory marks in the selection examination and interview will be admitted to pursue the degree programme. 
BSc. Agricultural Engineering Programme (Cut-off: 24)

Brief description: 
The BSc. Agricultural Engineering is the discipline, art, skill, profession, and technology of acquiring and applying scientific, mathematical, economic, social, and practical knowledge, in order to design and build structures, machines, devices, systems, materials and processes. It is also considered as the creative application of scientific principles to design or develop structures, machines, apparatus, or manufacturing processes, or works (utilizing them singly or in combination); or to construct or operate the same with full cognizance of their design; or to forecast their behavior under specific operating conditions; intended functions, economics of operation and safety to life and property. Graduates of Agricultural Engineering may find employment in the Agricultural machinery industries; manufacturing industry, agro-processing industries, large-scale irrigation farms, water resources engineering and entrepreneurship and management education and research institutions as well as local and international non-governmental organisations (NGOs).

Admission requirements
Good passes at the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE), West African School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) and the General Certificate of Education (GCE Advanced level) would be accepted for admission into the programme.

SSSCE Holders 
SSSCE holders seeking admission into the programme must have at least D in all three (3) Core Subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science; and three (3) of the following Elective Subjects: Elective Mathematics; Chemistry, Physics; Technical Drawing; Auto Mechanics and Metal Work.

WASSCE Holders 
WASSCE holders seeking admission into the programme must have at least C6 in all three (3) Core Subjects: English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science; and three (3) of the following Elective Subjects: Chemistry, Elective Mathematics, Physics; Technical Drawing; Auto mechanics and Metal Work. 

General Certificate of Education (Advanced level GCE) 
Holders of GCE advanced level holders seeking admission into the programme must have Passes in three (3) of the following subjects: Chemistry, Mathematics/Statistics, Physics. (At least one of the passes should be Grade D or better). In addition, the applicant must have had credit passes (minimum of Grade 6) in five (5) GCE ordinary level subjects including English Language, Mathematics, Chemistry, Additional Mathematics/Physics/Technical Drawing/ Metal Work/Auto Mechanics. 

HND and other Diploma Holders Seeking Admission into the Degree Programme 
HND and other Diploma applicants seeking admission to the programme should possess at least

Second Class Lower or better in a Chemical/Biochemical Science or related programme (Such candidates shall be admitted into Level 200). 
Third Class or Pass in a Chemical/Biochemical Science or related programme would be considered for admission to Level 100. Candidates in Categories 1 and 2 above shall however be required to pass a selection interview to be conducted by the University.
Mature students 
Eligible applicants for the Mature Entry must meet the following criteria: 

Be 25 years or above by August 31, of the incoming academic year.
Have passes in five GCE ‘O’ Level subjects including English Language, Mathematics/Statistics and Science in addition to two GCE ‘A’ Level passes in Additional Mathematics plus one of Physics, Chemistry, Auto mechanics and Metal works.
Have at least two (2) years of relevant work experience in related field. 
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders must have passes (A to E) in Core subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science plus passes (A to D) in three elective subjects that include Elective Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, Technical Drawing, Auto Mechanics and Metal Works.
Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders must have passes (A1- C6) in Core subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science plus passes (A1 to C6) in three elective subjects that include Elective Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, Technical Drawing, Auto Mechanics and Metal Works. 
Candidates seeking admission through Matured Entry shall write and pass both a selection examination and interview to be conducted by the University.
Only candidates who obtain satisfactory marks in the selection examination and interview will be admitted to pursue the degree programme. 
BSc. Environmental Engineering Programme (Cut-off: 24)

Brief description: 
The BSc. Environmental Engineering programme addresses environmental problems that concern the terrestrial (industry, urban and rural lives, agriculture, forestry), aquatic (fresh and salt water-coastal areas) and the atmosphere/ambient air. The programme provides students with the opportunity to receive training on how to remedy our complex environmental and sanitation problems (Indiscriminate pollution, transfer of pollutants from one environmental media to the other, transboundary pollution, etc) using systems and engineering methods. Also, this programme offers students the opportunity to aquire knowledge and skills in broader areas of design, environmental engineering, energy, engineering strategies and policies, physical and biological sciences and systems engineering. Thus, graduates from this programme will be a great human resource to various institutions in Ghana including Ministries and Agencies, Local and International NGOs, Engineering Consultancy Firms and be competent to startup their own businesses.

Admission requirements
Eligible candidates for admission into the programme must be West Africa Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) holders or Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) holders having credit passes of least grade C6 or D respectively in English Language, Integrated Science and Core Mathematics as well credit passes in three Elective Science subjects (Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Elective Mathematics, Agricultural Science) with a grade point which meets the entry requirements of the University. General Certificate Examinations (Advanced level) candidates should have three passes (One of the passes should be a grade D or better) and obtained 5 credits (At least Grade 6) at the ‘O’ Level including English Language, Mathematics and Science.

Other admission requirements

HND holders: HND or University Diploma holders with a certificate in a related engineering programme may be admitted to level 200 or 300 depending on the graduating class (at least second class lower) they are applying with. This category of applicants should also have at least 2 years of post HND study working experience in a related field. Students in this category may be asked to audit some courses where necessary. 
Mature students: Candidates aged 25 (verifiable with a birth certificate or a legitimate documentary proof) and above with six credits passes who sit and pass an entrance examination in English, Mathematics and General Paper and/interview maybe considered. Two years and above working experience in relevant field will be an added advantage. 
Foreign Applicants: Foreign applicants shall be admitted into the programme if they have equivalent grades/qualifications as specified above. Their academic records will be verified according to GTEC guidelines
 

FACULTY OF LAW

THREE (3)-YEAR POST FIRST-DEGREE LLB PROGRAMME

This is an evening programme (4:00 pm to 8:00 pm daily) which is designed for students with a first degree in any discipline but who wish to enroll on the LLB programme with the possibility of becoming lawyers in the future.
Applicants are to note that the 3-Year Post First-Degree LLB Programme is an undergraduate programme.

Eligibility:
Interested applicants must have been awarded a first degree in any relevant discipline from a recognized tertiary institution and must have obtained a minimum of a Second-Class Lower.

Additional Requirements
Applicants must have WASSCE/SSSCE/GBCE credit passes of at least grade C6 or D respectively in three (3) core subjects and three (3) elective subjects or credit passes in five (5) subjects including English Language, Mathematics and any Science subject at the GCE ‘O’ Level in addition to three ‘A’ Level passes plus a pass in General Paper.

Entrance Examination and Selection Interview
Short-listed applicants will be required to take an Entrance Examination which will attract a non-refundable examination fee. Applicants who are successful in the Entrance Examination will go through a Selection Interview. The Entrance Examination and Selection Interview will be announced to applicants who meet the application criteria.


FOUR (4)-YEAR LLB DEGREE PROGRAMME FOR NON-FIRST DEGREE HOLDERS (FULL-TIME)

Qualifications acceptable for admission:
– West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE)
– Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE)
– American High School Grade 12 with at least Final Grade Point of 3.0.
– WAEC General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level
– General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE)/ Cambridge GCE ‘O’ and ‘A’ Level

WASSCE and SSSCE/GBCE applicants must have at least credit passes (i.e. grade A1-C6 and grade A-D respectively) in three core subjects including English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science/Social Studies in addition to any three elective subjects.
WAEC General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level must have passes in any three (3) subjects (at least, one of the passes should be grade D or better) plus a pass in General Paper. In addition, the applicant must have had credit passes (Grade 6) or better in five (5) subjects including English Language, Mathematics and any Science Subject at the GCE Ordinary (‘O’) Level.
General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE)/ Cambridge GCE ‘O’ and ‘A’ Level applicants must have at least five (5) credit passes including English and Mathematics at the GCSE/Baccalaureate/Cambridge ‘O’ Level and three subjects at the ‘A’ Level.

 

C.   CITY CAMPUS

SCHOOL OF BUSINESS

The School of Business offers various undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. The undergraduate programmes include a Diploma and Bachelor of Science (BSc) programmes. The postgraduate programmes include Master of Business Administration (MBA), Masters of Science (MSc), Master of Philosophy (MPhil) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). We offer these programmes in seven (7) academic departments: Department of Accounting, Department of Business Analytics and Management Information Systems (BAMIS), Department of Finance, Department of Human Resource and Organisational Development (HROD), Department of Marketing and Entrepreneurship, Department of Procurement and Supply Chain Management and Department of Public and Health Service Administration.

UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES

BSc Accounting
BSc Banking and Finance
BSc Finance and Economics
BSc Marketing
BSc Human Resource Management
1.  Diploma in Business Administration 

A Diploma in Business Administration is a program of study that provides students with foundational knowledge and skills in the field of business. The programme typically covers a wide range of subjects related to business, including finance, accounting, marketing, management, and operations. The Diploma in Business Administration curriculum is designed to provide students with a broad understanding of the principles and practices underpinning modern business operations. Our Diploma in Business Administration serves as a foundation for further study in business, such as pursuing a Bachelor's in a related field.

Admission Requirements
To be admitted to a Diploma programme, a candidate must satisfy the following minimum requirements:

SSSCE/WASSCE
Passes in all the core subjects i.e. Core English, Core Mathematics, Core Science/ Integrated Science, Core Social Studies and any two electives at a minimum of grade E.

2.  BSc Accounting

The Bachelor of Science in Accounting is a four (4) year degree that prepares students to attain functional proficiency in accounting and accounting technologies and demonstrate and defend proposed solutions to accounting problems.

Admission Requirements

West Africa Senior School Certificate,
At least six (6) credits (A1 - C6) in WASSCE in three Core subjects (English Language, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three elective subjects from Business, General Arts, General Science, Home Economics, and Agriculture with a total aggregate of 36 or better. 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Levels),
International Baccalaureate (IB), IGCSE, GCSE, the American Grade 12 and 13 examinations and other external qualifications which have equivalences to the SSSCE or the WASSCE,
Candidates in possession of a diploma from the University for Development Studies or its equivalent,
Mature students: candidates (aged at least 25 years) who have duly passed the University’s mature students’ examinations.
3.  BSc Banking and Finance

BSc Banking and Finance combines academic rigour with practical financial skills to meet the needs of demanding careers in banking and finance. The first year introduces you to the main functional areas of business, including accounting, finance, management and marketing. This gives you the flexibility to work in any finance and banking or business area after graduation. In your final year, you have the opportunity to put your knowledge into practice by completing an in-depth, independent research project or dissertation. This will give you a chance to develop vital employability skills in the areas of finance and research further.

Admission Requirements

West Africa Senior School Certificate,
At least six (6) credits (A1 - C6) in WASSCE in three Core subjects (English Language, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three elective subjects from Business, General Arts, Visual Arts, General Science, Home Economics, and Agriculture with a total aggregate of 36 or better. 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Levels),
International Baccalaureate (IB), IGCSE, GCSE, the American Grade 12 and 13 examinations and other external qualifications which have equivalences to the SSSCE or the WASSCE,
Candidates in possession of a diploma from the University for Development Studies or its equivalent,
Mature students: candidates (aged at least 25 years) who have duly passed the University’s mature students’ examinations.
4.  BSc Finance and Economics

A BSc in Finance and Economics is a four-year undergraduate degree programme combining finance and economics. Finance courses typically cover topics such as financial markets, investments, corporate finance, and financial analysis. Economics courses typically cover topics such as microeconomics, macroeconomics, econometrics, and game theory. Students who graduate with a BSc Finance and Economics degree will have a wide range of career options available to them. They can work in the financial services industry, such as banks, investment firms, and insurance companies. They can also work in the corporate sector, such as in finance departments or consulting firms. Additionally, they can pursue careers in government, academia, or the non-profit sector.

Admission Requirements

West Africa Senior School Certificate,
At least six (6) credits (A1 - C6) in WASSCE in three Core subjects (English Language, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three elective subjects from Business, General Arts, Visual Arts, General Science, Home Economics, and Agriculture with a total aggregate of 36 or better. 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Levels),
International Baccalaureate (IB), IGCSE, GCSE, the American Grade 12 and 13 examinations and other external qualifications which have equivalences to the SSSCE or the WASSCE,
Candidates in possession of a diploma from the University for Development Studies or its equivalent,
Mature students: candidates (aged at least 25 years) who have duly passed the University’s mature students’ examinations.
5.  BSc Business Information Systems

Business Information Systems (BIS) is an innovative 4-year undergraduate degree that explores the use of technology in the modern business environment.  It incorporates skill development in technology, business, and technology management. It mixes business subjects such as accounting, economics, and marketing with technology-focused subjects such as databases, systems analysis, cybersecurity, and networks. The BSc (BIS) degree provides the ideal platform for a successful career in business. The programme aims to develop highly qualified graduates with a strong foundation in business knowledge and management skills who can demonstrate business analysis and applied information skills in national and international business environments.

Admission Requirements

West Africa Senior School Certificate,
At least six (6) credits (A1 - C6) in WASSCE in three Core subjects (English Language, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three elective subjects from Business, General Arts, Visual Arts, General Science, Home Economics, and Agriculture with a total aggregate of 36 or better. 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Levels),
International Baccalaureate (IB), IGCSE, GCSE, the American Grade 12 and 13 examinations and other external qualifications which have equivalences to the SSSCE or the WASSCE,
Candidates in possession of a diploma from the University for Development Studies or its equivalent,
Mature students: candidates (aged at least 25 years) who have duly passed the University’s mature students’ examinations.
6.  BSc Human Resource Management 

This BSc Human Resource Management programme gives students a chance to research and investigate a variety of fundamental ideas and techniques relating to the theory, ethics, and practices of human resource management. The programme's goals are to:

Provide a thorough examination of human resource management utilising a combination of sociological, psychological, political, and economic theories.
Present the foundations of managing people coupled with sector-specific organisational functions.
Help people comprehend and become aware of human resource management's current challenges in the contemporary economy.
Encourage and promote the development of various practical and transferable interpersonal, communication, leadership, and teamwork skills.
Admission Requirements

West Africa Senior School Certificate,
At least six (6) credits (A1 - C6) in WASSCE in three Core subjects (English Language, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three elective subjects from Business, General Arts, Visual Arts,  General Science, Home Economics, and Agriculture with a total aggregate of 36 or better. 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Levels),
International Baccalaureate (IB), IGCSE, GCSE, the American Grade 12 and 13 examinations and other external qualifications which have equivalences to the SSSCE or the WASSCE,
Candidates in possession of a diploma from the University for Development Studies or its equivalent,
Mature students: candidates (aged at least 25 years) who have duly passed the University’s mature students’ examinations.
7.  BSc Marketing

The BSc Marketing programme will enhance your ability to build and execute a compelling marketing plan because of your increased grasp of consumer behaviour. The marketing elements of this programme introduce you to the principles that deliver good marketing practices. You will learn about consumers and the role of markets and marketing in today’s society. By studying an introduction to accounting principles and economics, you will learn how marketing affects an organisation's financial stability. You will also gain insight into how markets operate.

Admission Requirements

West Africa Senior School Certificate,
At least six (6) credits (A1 - C6) in WASSCE in three Core subjects (English Language, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three elective subjects from Business, General Arts, Visual Arts, General Science, Home Economics, and Agriculture with a total aggregate of 36 or better. 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Levels),
International Baccalaureate (IB), IGCSE, GCSE, the American Grade 12 and 13 examinations and other external qualifications which have equivalences to the SSSCE or the WASSCE,
Candidates in possession of a diploma from the University for Development Studies or its equivalent,
Mature students: candidates (aged at least 25 years) who have duly passed the University’s mature students’ examinations.
8.  BSc Procurement and Supply Chain Management

The BSc in Procurement and Supply Chain Management is a four-year undergraduate degree programme that provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary to manage an organisation's procurement and supply chain activities effectively. The programme includes a combination of coursework, hands-on experience, and practical training. Graduates of the BSc programme in Procurement and Supply Chain Management are well-prepared for careers in various industries, including manufacturing, retail, logistics, and government. They may work in roles such as procurement specialist, supply chain analyst, logistics coordinator, or operations manager.

Admission Requirements:

West Africa Senior School Certificate,
At least six (6) credits (A1 - C6) in WASSCE in three Core subjects (English Language, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three elective subjects from Business, General Arts, Visual Arts, General Science, Home Economics, and Agriculture with a total aggregate of 36 or better. 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Levels),
International Baccalaureate (IB), IGCSE, GCSE, the American Grade 12 and 13 examinations and other external qualifications which have equivalences to the SSSCE or the WASSCE,
Candidates in possession of a diploma from the University for Development Studies or its equivalent,
Mature students: candidates (aged at least 25 years) who have duly passed the University’s mature students’ examinations.
9.  BSc Public Administration

A BSc in Public Administration is an undergraduate degree program that focuses on the study of the principles and practices of public sector management and administration. The program is designed to provide students with a broad understanding of the political, legal, and social context of public administration and the skills and knowledge necessary for effective management and leadership in the public sector.

Throughout the program, students will develop practical skills that are essential for success in the public sector, including critical thinking, problem-solving, communication, and project management. Many programs also provide opportunities for students to gain hands-on experience through internships or other practical learning experiences.

A BSc in Public Administration can prepare students for a variety of careers in the public sector, including roles in government agencies, non-profit organisations, and international organisations. Graduates may work in areas such as public policy analysis, program management, budget analysis, or human resources management. The degree can also serve as a foundation for further study in public administration or related fields, such as law or political science.

Admission Requirements

West Africa Senior School Certificate,
At least six (6) credits (A1 - C6) in WASSCE in three Core subjects (English Language, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies) and three elective subjects from Business, General Arts, Visual Arts, General Science, Home Economics, and Agriculture with a total aggregate of 36 or better. 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Levels),
International Baccalaureate (IB), IGCSE, GCSE, the American Grade 12 and 13 examinations and other external qualifications which have equivalences to the SSSCE or the WASSCE,
Candidates in possession of a diploma from the University for Development Studies or its equivalent,
Mature students: candidates (aged at least 25 years) who have duly passed the University’s mature students’ examinations.
 

INSTITUTE FOR DISTANCE AND CONTINUING LEARNING (IDCL)
The Institute offer the following programmes for both Ghanaian and International applicants.

UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAMMES: 

2-YEARS DIPLOMA IN BASIC EDUCATION (DBE)

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 

Applicants must possess 

One year Certificate in Education or;
(WASSCE A1 - C6) in 5 subjects comprising three Core Subjects (English Language, Mathematics and Integrated Science) and any two Electives subjects 
 
3-YEAR BED BASIC EDUCATION (BED)

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 

Applicants must possess

Two-year Diploma in Basic Education from any University or; 
Higher National Diploma (HND) in any field.
2-YEAR BED IN BASIC EDUCATION (BED)

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS

Applicants must possess 
Three-year Diploma in Basic Education from any accredited Institution 

2-YEAR BED IN EARLY CHILDHOOD CARE EDUCATION (BEC)

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 

Applicants must possess 
Two-year Diploma in Basic Education or Early Childhood Care Education from any accredited institution. 

UNDERGRADUATE GENERAL AGRICULTURE PROGRAMMES:

3-YEAR DEGREE IN GENERAL AGRICULTURE

ENTRY REQUIREMENT 

Applicants must possess
Certificate in General Agriculture from any Agricultural College or any accredited institution.

2-YEAR DEGREE IN GENERAL AGRICULTURE

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS

Applicants must possess
Diploma in General Agriculture from any Agricultural College or accredited Agricultural Training institution. 

DIPLOMA IN AGRIBUSINESS 

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS
Applicants must possess passes in 6 subjects from Senior High School Examinations (WASSCE). Specifically, the candidate should have passes in English and mathematics (D7 or better); passes in two other core subjects (C6 or better); and passes in any two elective subjects (C6 or better) from General Science, Agriculture or Business-related courses. Certificate A and mature applicants will also be considered after successful interviews.

UNDERGRADUATE NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT

4-YEAR BACHELOR IN NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (BSc. NRM)

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 
Applicants must possess passes (A1-C6 in WASSCE or A-D in SSCE) in 3 Elective Subjects in the following categories below:

- Category A: Chemistry, Biology, and Physics
- Category B: General Agriculture, Horticulture/Animal Husbandry, and Chemistry/Physics
- Category C: Geography, Economics, and Elective Mathematics (i.e., must have a C6 or better in Integrated Science).

Applicants in the above categories must also have passed in 3 Core Subjects: i.e., English, Mathematics, Integrated Science, and Social Studies.

3-YEAR BACHELOR IN NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (BSc. NRM)

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 
Applicants must possess a two-year diploma in Agriculture, Science/Tourism/Hospitality Management, Forestry, Wildlife, Fisheries, Natural Resources Management or related fields from a recognised University or academic institution. All applicants will be interviewed before being admitted into the program.

UNDERGRADUATE BUSINESS EDUCATION PROGRAMMES (BBE):

2-YEAR DEGREE IN BUSINESS EDUCATION PROGRAMMES

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 

Applicants must possess
HND in any Business-related course.

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN BUSINESS PROGRAMMES (BSC):

DIPLOMA IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 

Applicants must possess
Passes in all the core subjects in SSSCE /WASSCE, i.e., Core English, Core Mathematics, Core Science /Integrated Science, Core Social Studies and any two electives at a minimum of grade E, would be admitted to Level 100.

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN BUSINESS-RELATED   

PROGRAMMES (BSC)

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 

Applicants must possess

WEST AFRICA SENIOR SCHOOL CERTIFICATE
Applicants with at least six (6) credits (A1-C6) in WASSCE in three Core subjects (English Language, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science or Social Studies) and any three electives subjects from Business, General Arts, General Science, Home Economics and Agriculture with a total aggregate of 36 or better would be admitted to Level 100.  
UNIVERSITY DIPLOMA
Applicants with a 2-year University Diploma would be admitted to Level 200.
Other Diplomas, such as the 2-year Diploma in Business Studies offered by Technical Universities and other Institutes.
Applicants with such a 2-year diploma would be admitted to Level 100.

HIGHER NATIONAL DIPLOMA (HND)
Applicants with a 3-year HND would be admitted to Level 300 if they continue with the same area of specialisation.  For example, an applicant with HND in Accounting applying for BSc. Accounting would be admitted to Level 300.
The applicant would be admitted to Level 200 if he or she is applying to start a new area of specialisation.  For example, an applicant with HND Accounting applying for BSc. Procurement and Supply Chain Management would be admitted to level 200.

The Business-related Programmes available are;

BSc. Accounting                    
BSc. Banking and Finance 
BSc. Human Resource Management
BSc. Marketing 
BSc. Public Administration
NOTE
Applicants with SSCE results who are 25 years and above should apply through the Matured admissions window. Applicants are advised to contact Centre Coordinators before applying for admission.
For all Diploma courses, applicants with weak grades in the Core courses (English, Mathematics and Integrated Science) will be required to undertake and pass a 6-week Access course in those areas to be conducted by the Institute. 

STUDY CENTRE OF IDCL IS UDS, TAMALE CAMPUS

GENERAL MATURE APPLICANTS
Eligible applicants for the Mature Entry must meet the following criteria:

Be 25 years or above by August 31, 2026
Have passes in five G.C.E. ‘O’ Level subjects including English Language, Mathematic/Statistics and Science.
SSSCE/WASSCE holders must have passes in English Language, Mathematics, Integrated Science and three elective subjects with at least three (3) of the courses MUST be Credit Passes. 
Candidates would be expected to write and pass both a selection examination and interview in July, 2026 to be conducted by the University at the Tamale Campus.
 

MODE OF APPLICATION FOR DOMESTIC (GHANAIAN) APPLICANTS

All Ghanaian applicants for the 2026/2027 Academic Year admissions are required to use the UDS online application portal. The procedure for the online application process is as follows:

Make a payment of GH¢ 200.00 (Two Hundred Ghana Cedis) for the UDS Undergraduate E-Voucher at any Stanbic Bank, GCB Bank, Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), National Investment Bank (NIB), Prudential Bank, Zenith Bank, Access Bank and Ecobank branches throughout the country.
The E-Voucher contains the PIN, and Serial Number required for the completion of the online form.
Access the online form by visiting our online admissions portal at www.admissions.uds.edu.gh soon after payment.
In completing the online form, applicants will be required to upload their most recent passport size photographs with white background and relevant certificates. Applicants who use objects instead of their own photographs would be disqualified.
A completed form will not be considered for admission unless it is SUBMITTED after accepting our Data Confirmation Policy. 
Applicants are advised to check thoroughly all details entered before finally submitting their online applications. 
Closing Date
Closing date for submission of applications is June 30, 2026

MODE OF APPLICATION FOR FOREIGN APPLICANTS

All non-Ghanaian applicants are advised to apply as follows:

Access the online form for free by emailing international@uds.edu.gh for an E-voucher. Visit our online admissions portal at www.admissions.uds.edu.gh soon after receiving the E-voucher.
The E-Voucher contains the Pin, and Serial Number required in completing the online form. 
In completing the online form, applicants will be required to upload their most recent passport size photographs with white background and relevant certificates. Applicants who use objects instead of their own photographs would be disqualified. A completed form is not considered until it is SUBMITTED after accepting our Data Confirmation Policy. 
Applicants are advised to check thoroughly all details entered before they finally submit their online applications. 
The application documents as specified above should be addressed to: 
The Director, Academic Affairs
University for Development Studies
P.O Box TL 1350
Tamale-GHANA

Closing Date
Closing date for submission of applications is June 30, 2026. 

NOTE: Applicants on Awaiting Results should not apply for now.

REGISTRAR

Application forms for admission to graduate programmes in the Graduate School of the University for Development Studies (UDS) will be available online at www.uds.edu.gh from Friday January 16, 2026 for first- and second-degree holders from recognised Universities/institutions.

The following graduate programmes (Sandwich & Regular) would be offered by the University for the 2026/2027 academic year:

POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES 

A.   TAMALE CAMPUS

SCHOOL OF ALLIED HEALTH SCIENCES

DEPARTMENT OF NUTRITIONAL SCIENCES

MSC., MPHIL., AND PHD. PUBLIC HEALTH NUTRITION

Brief description of programmes
The MSc., MPhil. and PhD. Public Health Nutrition programmes aim to produce a cadre of practitioners and health professionals for teaching and research in academic institutions and for positions of professional leadership in health and health-related agencies where research is an important function. The MSc., MPhil. and PhD. Public Health Nutrition graduates will be equipped to advocate better health through diet and nutrition, promote health, and reduce the risk of nutrition-related diseases through educational and environmental approaches. The first year is common to the three programmes and consists of seven (7) core and three (3) elective modules and the remainder of the study period is dedicated to a supervised research project. The durations of the programmes are MSc. 16 months (i.e., one academic year, one trimester), MPhil. two (2) academic years, and PhD. four (4) academic years. 

Qualification/prerequisites for the programmes

MSc. and MPhil. Public Health Nutrition: Applicants for the MSc. and MPhil. Public Health Nutrition programmes must have a good first degree in human nutrition or dietetics or an appropriate area in the biological sciences (such as biochemistry, physiology, etc.) from a recognized University. The MPhil. applicants should have at least Second Class (Upper Division) bachelor’s degree and a good concept paper/proposal on a relevant and competitive research topic in the field of Public Health Nutrition. The MSc. applicants are expected to have at least Second Class (Lower Division) bachelor’s degree. Prospective applicants must submit recommendation letters from two academic referees and one professional referee. Foreign students may be admitted if they hold qualifications equivalent to those listed above. For non-English speaking applicants, evidence of good command of the English Language is required (TOEFL IBT regular admission score 79 with no score below 17; minimum of IELTS 6.5 with 6.0 in each component or equivalent). All applicants will have to pass an admission interview to be conducted by the Department of Nutritional Sciences to be admitted. 

PhD. Public Health Nutrition: Prospective applicants need to possess MPhil or MSc (by research) degree in Human Nutrition or Dietetics or a related area (i.e., Biological Sciences, Public Health, Epidemiology) with some course work in human nutrition from a recognized University. Prospective applicants with non-research Master’s degrees in nutrition or related areas are also eligible to apply provided they have evidence of at least two years research experience in the disciplines listed above from a recognized research institution. Prospective applicants must submit recommendation letters from two academic referees and one professional referee. Foreign students may be admitted if they hold qualifications equivalent to those listed above. For non-English speaking applicants, evidence of good command of the English Language is required (TOEFL IBT regular admission score 79 with no score below 17; minimum of IELTS 6.5 with 6.0 in each component or equivalent). In addition, applicants should have a good concept paper/proposal for a research topic in the field of public health nutrition. Applicants will be expected to pass a selection interview to be admitted. 

DEPARTMENT OF CLINICALCHEMISTRY

PATHOLOGY PROGRAMMES 

Brief Description of programmes 
The PhD and MPhil Chemical Pathology programmes are designed to produce well trained Biomedical Scientists with leadership roles in teaching at all levels of undergraduate and postgraduate education, research and work in analytical laboratories. It is expected that the graduates would be able to work independently, initiate research and seek information necessary to find solutions to problems facing humankind. 
The durations of the programmes are MPhil. two (2) academic years, and PhD. Three (3) academic years. 

Entry requirements for admission

PhD Chemical Pathology
A candidate seeking admission into PhD Chemical Pathology must:

Have an MPhil/MSc. Degree in Chemical Pathology, Biomedical Sciences or related areas from a recognized university 
Submit an official transcript of academic records
Submit three referee’s reports, two of which must be from somebody who is familiar with the applicant’s academic work. 
Submit a 3 – 5 page research proposal of his/her intended research area. 
Pass an interview
Demonstrate evidence of financial capability
Satisfy any additional requirements prescribed by the school of graduate studies
In all cases, candidates must have appropriate current or previous work experience in medical laboratory practice and must have completed one-year post qualification internship. 

MPhil Chemical Pathology
A candidate seeking admission into PhD Chemical Pathology must:

Have obtained a good first degree in the Biomedical Sciences or related areas from a recognized university
Submit an official transcript of academic records
Submit three referee’s reports, two of which must be from somebody who is familiar with the applicant’s academic work. 
Submit a 3 – 5-page research proposal of his/her intended research area. 
Pass an interview
Demonstrate evidence of financial capability
Satisfy any additional requirements prescribed by the school of graduate studies
Candidates must have appropriate current or previous work experience in medical laboratory practice and must have completed one-year post qualification internship

 

FACULTY OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STUDIES

DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT AND POLICY STUDIES 

PHD IN DEVELOPMENT STUDIES

The PhD in Development Studies programme is unique as it has a leaning towards sustainable development; with an emphasis on the adoption of green technologies, the use of indigenous knowledge and resources in development, and the sustainable management of natural resources. The programme places an equal balance on the various dimensions of sustainable development, economic, and environmental dimensions and this implies a great balance in the uptake of knowledge, skills and qualities of students who may pursue this. The provision for a Problem-Based Learning (PBL) approach to learning reflects its uniqueness as this will offer students an opportunity to apply concepts and theories to real-life situations.
The programme aims to produce high level human resource in development studies to enhance and expand their critical thinking and analytical abilities in order to contribute effectively and efficiently to the training of others in research and practical application of knowledge and skills in the field of development studies and beyond.

Entry requirements
Master of Philosophy candidate seeking admission to the PhD in Development Studies program must:

Have an MPhil or equivalent degree from a recognised institution in an appropriate field of study.
Have obtained a high GPA (at least 3.5) from a recognized University/analogous Institution.
Pass an interview.
Master of Arts candidate seeking admission to the programme must;

Have obtained a high CGPA (at least 3.5) from a recognized University/analogous Institution.
Score B+ or better in Research Methods course
Must pass an interview
Evidence of practical development work experience would be an added advantage
2-YEAR MPHIL IN DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION STUDIES

The MPhil in Development Education Studies programme was introduced in response to the need to provide post-graduate specialized training for practitioners in development education at the community, national and international levels. The programme seeks to provide opportunities for teaching and research in development education and/or advocacy and further studies for personnel, including managers, programme/project officers, field workers and others interested in citizen education and social justice work with the view to sharpening and augmenting their operational, programming and managerial competencies for leading, facilitating and promoting development education and/or advocacy training, research and development.

Entry Requirements

Candidates must have a Bachelor’s Degree (Second Class Lower Division or better) in Development Studies, Development Advocacy Studies, Development Advocacy Studies, Education Studies or Social Sciences/Humanities.
Candidates with MA in Development Education Studies will be admitted to the programme to do purely research work for a maximum of one year.
Candidates with work experience in development practice, such as Development Education and Advocacy Officers, Education Programmes Managers, Project Officers, Community Mobilization Officers, Communications Officers, etc. Such candidates have an added advantage. 
Candidates must pass a competitive selection interview.
Candidates or applicants may also be required to take an entrance examination as may be determined by the Faculty Board and/or Board of Graduate School.
 

SCHOOL OF NURSING AND MIDWIFERY

Master of Philosophy (MPhil) in Nursing
Master of Science (MSc) in Nursing
Duration
Master of Philosophy (MPhil) in Nursing: Two years
Master of Science (MSc) Nursing: One year

Mode of Delivery
Regular

Admission Requirements

Domestic applicants

To qualify for admission into the MPhil or MSc in Nursing programme, the applicant must meet the following requirements:
The applicant must have a good first degree in a nursing or midwifery program, preferably a second-class lower or better from any accredited university. 
Domestic applicants with certificates obtained from a foreign country must have their certificates validated and certified by the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission (GTEC).
Applicants must have at least one year of work experience as a professional nurse/midwife after national service. 
The applicant must also be in good standing with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (N&MC) of Ghana.
Foreign Applicants

Foreign applicants with a good first degree in nursing or midwifery, preferably a second-class lower or better at any accredited university may be considered for admission. 
All foreign applicants must have their certificates validated and certified by the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission (GTEC).
International applicants must show evidence of registration with their home Professional Regulatory Bodies. 
Applicants from non-English speaking countries must also show evidence of English Language proficiency.
Closing date for application: May 31, 2026.
Contact for enquiries
SoNM Office Line: 0372094289
Programme Coordinator: 0209318103
Email: sonm@uds.edu.gh 


FACULTY OF EDUCATION

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATIONS 

MED/MPHIL EDUCATIONAL MEASUREMENT AND EVALUATION

Brief Description
Educational Measurement and Evaluation Programme is designed to train professionals in the field.
Specifically, the Programme seeks to:
prepare Educational Measurement and Evaluation professionals who can apply the principles and theories of Measurement and Evaluation to improve the quality of assessment practices across academic pursuits both at National and International Stage.
develop critical thinking Assessment, Measurement and Evaluation educators who will be capable of developing, administering and analysing standard assessment tools for our examinations and research at the various levels of educations across the country and beyond.
produce Assessment, Measurement and Evaluation specialists capable of providing periodic continuing professional development trainings for teachers and other related professional bodies leading to improved performance in their respective jobs.  

Admission Requirements(qualification) 
Applicants must have:

A good B.Ed. degree in Science, Integrated Science, Agriculture, Mathematics. Social Sciences (History,) or Business Studies (Accounting) of not lower than second class lower from a recognized university.
Good B.A (in relevant area) or BSc in Science, Mathematics, or Accounting, not lower than second class and a Post-Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE) from recognized institutions.
Applicants with first degree below Second-Class Lower Division may be admitted upon outstanding performance at the interviews.
MED/MPHIL GUIDANCE AND COUNSELLING

Brief Description
The programme seeks to provide an opportunity for teaching and research in Guidance and Counselling that would help address the multiplicity of problems that individuals/students/clients face in the various domains of life such as work place, community and school setting. It would also appropriately assist individuals/students/clients discover and develop their educational, vocational, social-personal and psychological potentials and thereby achieve an optimal level of personal happiness and social usefulness.

Admission Requirements(qualification)

Candidates must have a good First Degree (Minimum of Second-Class Lower Division) from a recognized university.
A candidate, who does not satisfy the requirements stated above but is otherwise adjudged suitable, may be admitted. For the purpose of assessing his/her suitability, such a candidate may be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination or both as directed by the Board of Graduate School.
MED/MPHIL SPECIAL EDUCATION

Brief Description
The overarching aim of the programme is to offer and equip students with the relevant skills, competencies and knowledge that will be required of them to effectively work with and manage persons with Special Education Needs [SEN]. 
The specific objectives of the programme are to:

To equip students with competencies and skills through theoretical, practical and research-oriented skills. 
Produce professionals who are capable of providing curriculum development and programming design leadership in Special Education
Prepare academic-oriented students with prerequisite skills, knowledge and values needed to prepare for future studies in Special Education.
Admission Requirements (qualification)

Candidates seeking admission to the programme must have a Bachelor’s degree in a related discipline (preferably a Bachelor of Education) from a recognized university.
Master’s degree holders seeking to upgrade themselves professionally  
A candidate, who does not satisfy the requirements stated above but is otherwise adjudged suitable, may be admitted. For the purpose of assessing his/her suitability, such a candidate may be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination or both as directed by the Board of Graduate School.

POSTGRADUATE DIPLOMA IN EDUCATION (PGDE) [SANDWICH]

Brief Description
The Postgraduate Diploma in Education (PGDE) programme was designed to provide opportunity for professional training for non-professional staff(teachers) who desire to be trained as professional teachers. Prospective applicants include untrained teachers, and other graduates desiring to be professional teachers or educationists. 

Admission Requirement (qualification)

Candidates must have Bachelors’ degree in a teaching subject (i.e History, Math, Science, Business Studies, Social Science, Geography etc) from a recognized university.
Holders of Diploma in Basic Education or Early Childhood Care Education from an accredited University or College of Education at second class lower or better.
Masters’ degree holders teaching or interested in teaching seeking to become professional teachers
PhD holders in or interested in teaching seeking to become professional teachers 
A candidate, who does not satisfy the requirements stated above but is otherwise adjudged suitable, may be admitted. For the purpose of assessing his/her suitability, such a candidate may be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination or both as directed by the Board of Graduate school.
Applicants who show evidence of already teaching will have an added advantage.
N.B: ALL MED AND PGDE PROGRAMMES ARE OFFERED AS SANDWICH PROGRAMMES.

MASTER OF EDUCATION (MED) IN HEALTH SCIENCE EDUCATION (SANDWICH)

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION
The M. ED Health Science Education programme aims at equipping graduates with the requisite knowledge, competencies and capacity to develop and implement health education and training. The graduates will also use their comprehensive theoretical understanding of current health issues in addressing emerging challenges in the health sector. The attitudinal and behavioural gaps among health professionals and educators will be addressed in the programme.

The M.Ed Health Science Education programme seeks to:

Equip students with core competencies and skills in a variety of classroom-based and clinical teaching methods and enable them apply these in a range of health professions and educational settings.
Train students to design and implement innovative curricula and educational programs for learners within the health and education sectors. 
Evaluate and apply educational research approaches through collaborative practice in various health and educational settings 
ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:
A candidate seeking admission to Master of Education in Health Science Education must:

Have a good first degree from any accredited/recognized public or private institution of higher learning, local and abroad.
Have a bachelor’s degree (B.Ed., B.A., or B.Sc. honours) or equivalent with at least a Second Class, Lower Division. For example, B.Ed. in Health Science Education; B.Sc. in Nursing/Midwifery/Paediatrics, B.Sc in Public Health, BSc in Community Nutrition, BSc in Health Science with a professional teacher’s certificate or any other health related Bachelor’s degree.
Meet the standard admission requirements for graduate studies in UDS as well as possess or meet the following requirements. 
The MEd programme is a one-year programme and is accessible to the following: 

Health educators
Professional teachers with health-related background
 Nurses/midwives/paediatric nurse educators
Public health experts or research assistants
Community nutritionists 
MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY IN HEALTH SCIENCE EDUCATION (REGULAR) 

PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION
The Master of Philosophy in Health Science Education (MPhil HSE) programme seeks to extend the knowledge and skills of health professionals and educators in the areas of educational pedagogy, educational research and inter-professional leadership and management. The programme aims at equipping students with the requisite knowledge, competencies and capacity to conceptualize, design, develop and manage health education and training and use the acquired competencies to generate strategies to improve health and equitable quality education at various institutions.   The programme will provide students opportunities to develop a comprehensive understanding of current health professional practices, education and research principles thus leading to overall improvement and recognition in the educational system. The attitudinal and behavioural gaps among health professionals and educators will be addressed in the programme.

The MPhil Health Science Education programme seeks to equip students to be able to:

Apply core competencies and skills in classroom based and clinical teaching methods in a range of health professions and educational settings.
Design and implement innovative curricula and educational programs for learners within the health and education sectors. 
Develop appropriate professional attitudes to problem solving in health sciences education.
Evaluate and apply educational research approaches through individual and collaborative practice in various health and educational settings.  
Conduct health and educational research independently and collaboratively as well as apply the findings in various health and educational settings. 
ENTRY REQUIREMENTS:
Applicants seeking admission must meet the standard admission requirements for graduate studies in UDS as well as possess or meet the following requirements:

Have a good first degree from any accredited/recognized public or private institution of higher learning, local and abroad.
Have a bachelor’s degree (B.Ed., B.A., or B.Sc. honours) or equivalent with at least a Second Class, Lower Division. For example, B.Ed. in Health Science Education; B.Sc. in Nursing/Midwifery/Paediatrics, B.Sc. in Public Health, BSc in Community Nutrition, BSc in Health Science with a professional teacher’s certificate or any other health related Bachelor’s degree.
meet the standard admission requirements for graduate studies in UDS as well as possess or meet the following requirements. 
Submit an official transcript of academic record
Submit at least two referees’ reports one of which must be from a former lecturer
Submit a pre-proposal of 2-3 pages on the intended area of study, including references
Pass an oral interview
The M.Phil programme in Health Science Education is a two-year full time programme and is accessible to the following: 

Health educators
professional teachers with health-related background; 
Nurses/midwives/paediatric nurse educators
public health experts or research assistants
community nutritionists 
Master of Education in Early Childhood Education candidate seeking admission to a Master of Philosophy in Early Childhood Care and Education

Such a candidate must:
Have obtained a CGPA of 3.0 or better in the master’s course work,
Scored B+ or better in Research Methods course
Submit an official transcript of both first degree and master’s academic record.
Submit a pre-proposal of 2-3 pages on the intended area of study, including references.
Pass an oral interview.
Other Programmes

Postgraduate Certificate in Professional Educational Leadership
Postgraduate Diploma in Professional Educational Leadership
Master of Professional Educational Leadership
M.Ed Training and Development
M.Phil Training and Development
M.Ed Educational Management and Planning
M.Phil Educational Management and Planning
M.Ed Agriculture
M.Phil Agricultural Education
Concessionary Admission
Applications will be handled on a case-by-case basis. Where an applicant does not satisfy the requirements stated above but has substantial work experience and outstanding references, otherwise adjudged suitable, he/she may be admitted. For the purpose of assessing his/her suitability, such a candidate may be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination or both as directed by the Board of Graduate School.

SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH

Master of Public Health (Maternal and Child Health)

Programme: Master of Public Health (Maternal and Child Health)
Description: The MPH Maternal and Child Health (MCH) programme targets individual practitioners from the medical and allied health professions as well as graduates in the life sciences with the interest of specialising in MCH. The programme aims to develop a critical mass of experts who will be able to conduct human population-based quality research in public health specifically relating to MCH issues. 
This is a full-time programme of two years in duration; covering coursework and thesis research. The coursework comprises both core and elective modules

Qualification: All prospective applicants to the MPH (MCH) programme are expected to hold a relevant first degree from a recognized University. The applicants are expected to hold at least a Second-Class (Lower Division) Honours Bachelor's degree in nursing, midwifery, medicine, nutrition, or an appropriate area in the life sciences. In addition, applicants should present a good proposal on a research topic as part of the application process. All qualified applicants will be invited for an interview before admission.
The MPH programme has 2 options; They include regular and sandwich options. Students who take the regular option are supposed to attend lectures on campus while those who opt for the sandwich option will receive tuition via online and only come for revision and examination.


iMaster of Public Health (MPH) in Environmental Health Science (MPH -EHS)
The Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, School of Public Health, University for Development Studies, invites applications from suitably qualified candidates for its Master of Public Health in Environmental Health Science (MPH EHS) programme for the 2026/2027 academic year. 

The MPH-EHS programme seeks to produce graduates that are capable of conducting field-based research and interventions in Environmental Health to reduce disease burden and promote human and economic development. Graduates will be equipped with sound scientific knowledge and requisite analytic skills in the field of Public Health EHS, necessary to design, implement, and evaluate EHS programmes and policies so as to optimize health, well-being and address EHS morbidities and mortalities.
Graduates of the programme are expected to show leadership in EHS issues and the determinants of promoting and protecting the population’s health and well-being.

Admission requirements
The programme is intended for individual practitioners from the allied health professions as well as graduates in the life sciences with an interest in specializing in Environmental Health. All prospective applicants are expected to hold a relevant degree from a recognized University. Applicants are expected to hold at least Second-Class (Lower Division) Honours Bachelor's degree in Environmental health and Occupational Safety, Health Sciences education and promotion, nursing, midwifery, medicine, nutrition, or an appropriate area in the life sciences. In addition, applicants should present a good proposal of a research topic. General admission requirements for Postgraduate Studies at the University for Development Studies shall apply. Selection of applicants is made on a competitive basis. However, candidates with institutional support have an advantage. The MPH EHS programme is approved by the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission.
The MPH programme has 2 options; They include regular and sandwich options. Students who take the regular option are supposed to attend lectures on campus while those who opt for the sandwich option will receive tuition via online and only come for revision and examination.

Master of Public Health (Epidemiology and Biostatistics)


Description: The MPH Epidemiology and Biostatistics programme targets individual practitioners from the medical and allied health professions as well as graduates in the life sciences with the interest of specialising in Epidemiology and Biostatistics. The programme aims to develop a critical mass of experts who will be able to conduct quality research in public health specifically relating to Epidemiology and Biostatistics. 
This is a full-time programme of two years in duration; covering coursework and thesis research. The coursework comprises both core and elective modules. 

Qualification: All prospective applicants to the MPH Epidemiology and Biostatistics programme are expected to hold a relevant first degree from a recognized University. The applicants are expected to hold at least Second-Class (Lower Division) Honours Bachelor's degree in nursing, midwifery, medicine, nutrition or an appropriate area in the life sciences. In addition, applicants should present a good proposal on a research topic as part of the application process. All qualified applicants will be invited for an interview before admission.
The MPH programme has 2 options; They include regular and sandwich options. Students who take the regular option are supposed to attend lectures on campus while those who opt for the sandwich option will receive tuition via online and only come for revision and examination.

Master of Public Health (Public Health Informatics)


Description: The MPH Public Health Informatics programme targets individual practitioners from the medical and allied health professions as well as graduates in the life sciences with the interest of specialising in Public Health Informatics. The programme aims to develop a critical mass of experts who will be able to conduct quality research in public health specifically relating to Public Health Informatics. 
This is a full-time programme of two years in duration; covering coursework and thesis research. The coursework comprises both core and elective modules. 

Qualification: All prospective applicants to the MPH Public Health Informatics programme are expected to hold a relevant first degree from a recognized University. The applicants are expected to hold at least Second-Class (Lower Division) Honours Bachelor's degree in nursing, midwifery, medicine, nutrition, or an appropriate area in the life sciences. In addition, applicants should present a good proposal on a research topic as part of the application process. All qualified applicants will be invited for an interview before admission.
The MPH programme has 2 options; They include regular and sandwich options. Students who take the regular option are supposed to attend lectures on campus while those who opt for the sandwich option will receive tuition via online and only come for revision and examination.

Master of Public Health (Global Health)


Description: The MPH Global Health programme targets individual practitioners from the medical and allied health professions as well as graduates in the life sciences with the interest of specialising in Global Health. The programme aims to develop a critical mass of experts who will be able to conduct quality research in public health specifically relating to Global Health issues. 
This is a full-time programme of two years in duration; covering coursework and thesis research. The coursework comprises both core and elective modules. 

Qualification: All prospective applicants to the MPH Global Health programme are expected to hold a relevant first degree from a recognized University. The applicants are expected to hold at least Second-Class (Lower Division) Honours Bachelor's degree in nursing, midwifery, medicine, nutrition, or an appropriate area in the life sciences. In addition, applicants should present a good proposal on a research topic as part of the application process. All qualified applicants will be invited for an interview before admission.
The MPH programme has 2 options; They include regular and sandwich options. Students who take the regular option are supposed to attend lectures on campus while those who opt for the sandwich option will receive tuition via online and only come for revision and examination.

Master of Public Health (Health Policy & Management)

Description: The MPH Health Policy and Management programme targets individual practitioners from the medical and allied health professions as well as graduates in relevant social and life sciences with the interest of specialising in Health Policy and Management. The programme aims to develop a critical mass of experts who will be able to conduct quality research in public health specifically relating to Health Policy and Management. 
This is a full-time programme of two years in duration; covering coursework and thesis research. The coursework comprises both core and elective modules. 

Qualification: All prospective applicants to the MPH Health Policy and Management are expected to hold a relevant first degree from a recognized University. The applicants are expected to hold at least Second-Class (Lower Division) Honours Bachelor's degree in a health-related discipline, or in an appropriate area in the life and social sciences. In addition, applicants should present a good proposal on a research topic as part of the application process. All qualified applicants will be invited for an interview before admission.
The MPH programme has 2 options; They include regular and sandwich options. Students who take the regular option are supposed to attend lectures on campus while those who opt for the sandwich option will receive tuition via online and only come for revision and examination.

MPhil Community Health and Development 


Description: The MPhil Community Health and Development programme targets individual practitioners from the medical and allied health professions as well as graduates in the life sciences with the interest of specialising in Community Health and Development. The programme aims to develop a critical mass of experts who will be able to conduct human population-based quality research in public health specifically relating to Community Health and Development. 
This is a full-time programme of two years in duration; covering coursework and thesis research. The coursework comprises both core and elective modules. 

Qualification: All prospective applicants to the MPhil Community Health and Development programme are expected to hold a relevant first degree from a recognized University. The applicants are expected to hold at least Second-Class (Lower Division) Honours Bachelor's degree in nursing, midwifery, medicine, nutrition, or an appropriate area in the life sciences. In addition, applicants should present a good proposal on a research topic as part of the application process. All qualified applicants will be invited for an interview before admission.


viii.    Master of Science in Community Disaster Resilience Studies (MSc CDRS)
The Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, School of Public Health, University for Development Studies, invites applications from suitably qualified candidates for its Master of Science in Community Disaster Resilience Studies (MSc CDRS) programme for the 2023/2024 academic year. 

The Community Disaster Resilience Studies curriculum emerged from collaborative work under the strengthening leadership in disaster resilience programme which set out to strengthen linkages between practitioners and future leaders as well as institutionalize disaster resilience leadership in higher education. The goal of the NEW curriculum in Community Disaster Resilience Studies is to train frontline community disaster prevention, response, and recovery leaders who will be equipped with interdisciplinary analytical skills, knowledge, techniques, and attitudes to provide comprehensive world-class disaster risk reduction leadership. 

Admission requirements
Prospective applicants are expected to hold a first Degree (Second Class Upper Division or better) from a recognized University. Candidates with at least (10) years’ service experience in their profession may also apply. The programme is suitable for persons with a first degree and who are into their early to mid-careers. Candidates in the following fields are particularly encouraged to apply: Functionaries in Disaster Risk Management Centres; International Humanitarian Organizations; NGOs and CBOs; Local Government Operatives; Development Planners; Environmental/Natural Resource Managers; Social/Community Development Workers; Politicians; Public Health Professionals; Economists; Geographers; Meteorologists; and Disaster Information Technology Specialists as well as security studies field. All applicants should accompany their application materials with a research concept note to facilitate the early identification of a suitable thesis supervisor. General admission requirements for Post Graduate Studies at the University for Development Studies, apply. Selection of applicants is made on a competitive basis. However, candidates with institutional support have an advantage. The MSc CDRS programme is approved by the National Accreditation Board. 

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE

MPhil/PhD in Clinical Sciences

The MPhil/PhD programme in Clinical Sciences at the department of Medical Research and Innovation, Schol of Medicine, University for Development Studies is designed to cultivate highly skilled and innovative researchers in the field of clinical sciences. The programme allows candidates to carry out in-depth clinical research in the field of medicine to promote and improve healthcare. It is open to highly motivated candidates who have proven to be academically outstanding and show a strong interest in clinical research.

Program Structure
The MPhil/PhD in Clinical Sciences is a full-time program that combines coursework with extensive research as well as Clinical rotation. The typical duration for the MPhil programme is a minimum of 2 years, while the PhD program extends for a minimum of 3 years, depending on the research progress and publication of results.

Admission Requirements

Qualifications for MPhil applicants
To qualify for admission, an applicant must hold MBChB, MBBS or MD degree or Pharm D or Health-based first degree.

Qualifications for PhD applicants
To qualify for admission, an applicant must hold a two-year master’s degree or membership or fellowship in the following science disciplines or specialized areas will be eligible to apply for the programme:

Surgery and allied surgical specialties;
Internal Medicine and therapeutics, geriatrics;
Anaesthesia and Intensive care;
Infectious diseases
Clinical microbiology
Immunology
Rheumatology;
Reproductive and maternal health;
Paediatrics and Child Health;
Family Medicine;
Medical Genetics;
Endocrinology 
Clinical chemistry;
Haematology
Oncology;
Clinical pharmacology;
Sports medicine;
Psychiatry;
Clinical psychology;
Dermatology;
Human anatomy and physiology;
Neurosciences;
Clinical Nutrition;
Clinical pathology;
Clinical Sciences;
Imaging methods in Medicine.
NB: 

A detailed research proposal outlining the intended area of study.
Letters (2) of recommendation from academic or professional referees.
All applicants will go through a selection interview prior to the offer of admission. 
Link: https://admissions.uds.edu.gh/application
Master of Health Professions Education

M.Phil Molecular Medicine
PhD Molecular Medicine
M.Phil Clinical Microbiology
PhD Clinical Microbiology

B.   NYANKPALA CAMPUS

FACULTY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND CONSUMER SCIENCES

TO BE ADMITTED INTO A PROGRAMME LEADING TO THE AWARD OF A GRADUATE DIPLOMA OR THE MASTER'S DEGREE (MSC. AND M. PHIL), A CANDIDATE MUST:

Have obtained a good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in an appropriate field of study from a recognised University. Applicants with a first degree below Second-class Lower division may be admitted upon the recommendation of the Department. Applicants with master’s non-research may be admitted to a 12-month top-up programme in the same or related field leading to the award of an MPhil.  
Submit an official transcript of your academic record. 
Submit two referee reports from somebody familiar with the applicant’s academic work.
In addition, those seeking a research-related degree must attach a 3- 5 page research proposal of their intended area of research.  
Satisfy any additional requirements prescribed by the Faculties/Schools. These may include relevant work experience, a written entrance examination and an interview.
Applicants must note that all MSc non-research programmes are available through Sandwich. 
A CANDIDATE SEEKING ADMISSION INTO THE PHD. PROGRAM MUST:

Have an M.Phil./M.Sc. by research degree in an appropriate field of study from a recognised University.   
Submit an official transcript of your academic record.  
Submit two referee reports from somebody familiar with the applicant’s academic work.
Submit a proposal of 3-5 pages of the intended study area, including a working bibliography.  
Satisfy any additional requirements prescribed by the Department/Faculty.
Intake levels shall be influenced by the availability of supervisors for the student’s interest areas and fields of study. 
Faculties, schools, and departments are responsible for setting admission standards in conformity with the overall university standards.
POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES

MSc/MPhil Agricultural Project Management & Policy
MSc/MPhil/PhD Agricultural Economics
MSc/MPhil/PhD Animal Science
MSc/MPhil/PhD Crop Science
MSc/MPhil/PhD Horticulture
MSc/MPhil/PhD Innovation Communication
MSc/MPhil/PhD Post Harvest Technology
MSc/MPhil/PhD Soil and Water Conservation and Management
MSc/MPhil/PhD Agribusiness 
MPhil/PhD Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems 
MSc/MPhil/PhD Food Science and Technology 

FACULTY OF BIOSCIENCES

Programme: Master of Philosophy (MPhil) in Fisheries Sciences

Brief Description:
MPhil in Fisheries Science aims to train middle-level manpower to assist with teaching and research in tertiary institutions and other relevant public and private organizations that require expertise in fisheries science. The duration for completion of the MPhil Fisheries Science programme is two years (24 months) in the case of full-time study and three years (36 months) for part time studies. Admission requires and an undergraduate degree or higher in Fisheries and related fields.

Entry Requirements:
The minimum entry requirement for admission to the MPhil Fisheries Science will be a Bachelor of Science (BSc) degree in Aquaculture Technology and Fisheries Science, Marine and Fisheries Science, Fisheries and Aquatic Science, Natural Resources Management, Agricultural Sciences, Biological Sciences, Zoology, Environmental Science or other related field from any recognised university. Foreign students with the requisite qualifications equivalent to those listed above may apply for the programme to pursue courses towards the award of University for Development Studies. However, evidence of a command of the English Language at the ordinary level of the GCE or its equivalent is required. There will be an oral interview for shortlisted applicants.

Programme: Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Fisheries Science

Brief Description:
The PhD in Fisheries Science programme addresses the decline of fish stocks in Ghana especially in fisheries waters due to increased effort and weakened enforcement of fisheries laws. The programme aims to equip graduates with in-depth knowledge and skills in fisheries research, extension, and education to support national fisheries management and development. The programme seeks to generate scientific information for the management and conservation of fishery resources. The objectives of the programme include training high-level manpower for teaching, research, and extension in tertiary and research institutions, developing the capacity of professionals for managerial roles in the fishing industry and related fields, promoting policy formulation and implementation for sustainable fisheries growth, and preparing students to become leaders and team players in addressing local, regional, national, and global fisheries issues. By targeting these objectives, the programme aims to create maximum impact on family and community health, food security, and economic development, ultimately supporting the socio-economic development and food security for present and future generations of Ghanaians.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates applying for the PhD in Fisheries Science programme must hold a good research-based Master’s degree in Fisheries Science, Biology, Mathematics, Pure Sciences, Economics, Social Sciences or any related field of study from a recognised institution in Ghana shall submit evidence of adequate training and ability to undertake the proposed programme. Foreign students with the requisite qualifications equivalent to those listed above may apply for the PhD in Sustainable Aquaculture programme to pursue courses towards the award of University for Development Studies However, evidence of a command of the English Language at the ordinary level of the GCE or its equivalent is required. There will be an oral interview for shortlisted applicants.

Programme: Docter of Philosophy (PhD) in Sustainable Aquaculture

Brief Description:
The PhD in Sustainable Aquaculture programme aims to produce highly skilled human resources with an in-depth understanding of aquaculture and aquatic ecological management. The programme focuses on generating scientific information through research for sustainable aquaculture management and the conservation of aquatic resources. The programmes objectives include training high-level manpower for teaching, research, and extension in tertiary and research institutions, developing the capacity of professionals for managerial roles in the aquaculture industry and related fields, promoting policy formulation and implementation for sustainable growth of the aquaculture sector, and preparing students to become leaders and team players in addressing local, regional, national, and global aquaculture issues. By targeting these objectives, the programme aims to create maximum impact on sustainable aquaculture practices, environmental conservation, and economic development, ultimately supporting the socio-economic development and food security for present and future generations.

Admission Requirements:
Applicants for the PhD in Sustainable Aquaculture should be holders of a Master’s (MPhil/MSc) degree with research in fields such as Aquaculture Science, Sustainable Aquaculture Technology, Fisheries Science, Environmental Science, Animal Science, Social Science, Physical Sciences, Business, Economics or any related fields of study. Where an applicant is judged to have any deficiency, this may be remedied by requiring the applicant to make up as appropriate either by course work, mini-project, or both. Foreign students with the requisite qualifications equivalent to those listed above may apply for the PhD in Sustainable Aquaculture programme to pursue courses towards the award of University for Development Studies. However, evidence of a command of the English Language at the ordinary level of the GCE or its equivalent is required. There will be an oral interview for shortlisted applicants.

Programme: PhD Biotechnology / MSc Biotechnology / MPhil Biotechnology

Brief Description:
The postgraduate programme in biotechnology provides students with knowledge and practical skills in the application of Molecular and Applied Biology approaches across Biotechnology disciplines and to provide students with experience of undertaking biotechnology-related research.

Entry Requirements for Admission of PhD Students 
Applicants with an MSc/MPhil (grade B and above, >60%) by research in Agricultural Sciences, Biochemistry, Biological Sciences and or an equivalent qualification from a recognized University may gain direct entry into the PhD programme. Applicants with a Master’s non-research but with practical field or laboratory experience may be admitted. Outstanding MSc/MPhil students may after their first-year course work apply to be registered for the PhD.

Entry Requirements for Admission of MSc/MPhil Biotechnology Students
First Class or Second-Class Upper Degree in Agricultural Sciences, Biochemistry, Biological Sciences and or an equivalent qualification from a recognized university may gain direct entry into the MSc/MPhil programmes. Second class Lower Divisions will have to undergo further interviews for consideration. In accordance with UDS Graduate School Hand Book, applicants with a Master’s non-research in Biotechnology may be admitted to a 12-month top-up programme leading to the award of an MPhil.


SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS

DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED ECONOMICS

MSc/MPhil/PhD in Economic Development Policy (EDP)

The MSc EDP aims to develop the capacity of graduates to explore current theories, issues and evidence in economic policies employed in developing countries. Students will be trained to apply advanced-level knowledge of economics to practical and development policy issues. In addition, they will be trained to use a broad range of techniques in development policy analysis and research. 

The MPhil EDP aims to build students’ research capacity and equip them to apply cutting-edge research methods in preparing community profiles, analysing past economic and demographic trends, strategic economic planning exercises, and evaluating alternative economic management models. 
The PhD EDP aims to train students to contribute to economic development and policy analysis through more intensive research. The programme will be the transition phase of graduates between academic studies and research work. This would be a means of acquiring a practical knowledge of implementing economics theory and policies to real-world challenges.

Admission Requirements 

Masters’ (MSc and MPhil) Programmes
Holders of First Degree (or equivalent) in Economics or Related Disciplines
The masters’ programmes (MSc and MPhil) seek to attract students with bachelor’s degrees from recognised tertiary institutions within and outside Ghana. At the time of application, such individuals should typically hold the first-degree certificate with at least second class (lower division) in Economics or related disciplines. 
The programmes also target middle-level policymakers and managers of governmental and non-governmental institutions, economic policy advisors and desk officers in MMDAs, junior scientists in research institutions and junior university Lecturers, and research and teaching assistants. In addition, graduates with MSc degrees in economics without research who seek careers in research and academia may apply to the MPhil programme. Students can only graduate MPhil Economic Development Policy with at least 2 years in the programme. 

PhD Programme
Holders of Master of Philosophy (or Equivalent) in Economics or Related Disciplines
The PhD in EDP targets graduates with MPhil in economics, development economics, economic development policy, development studies or equivalent research master’s degree in cognate fields. Such candidates would normally aim to upgrade their research competence, leading to a terminal degree in EDP. Students pursuing this programme can graduate after a minimum of 3 years in the programme 


FACULTY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT

MPhil Environmental Management and Sustainability

Brief Description
This programme seeks to develop a middle level human resource base with requisite theoretical knowledge and research-based skills for promoting and applying the tenets of environmental management and sustainability.


Entry requirements
Applications for admission are accepted from: 

Holders of First- or Second-Class Honour degrees, awarded by recognized universities and 
degree awarding institutions in the physical sciences, biological sciences, social sciences 
or other fields relevant to environmental management and sustainability.
Individuals with degrees outside those listed in (i) but have professional qualifications in 
Occupational Health and Safety, ISO certification 14001, Law, architecture may apply. 
Holders of other degrees but equivalent to degrees in (i), who have at least two years proven work experience in an environmentally related profession.
PhD Environmental Management and Sustainability 

Brief description
The four-year PhD programme is to produce high level qualification in the theory and practical application of the tenets of sustainable management of the environment. The programme seeks to equip Graduates to critically assess environmental solutions proffered to resolve challenges using a transdisciplinary approach. It seeks also to build the capacity of students in the formulation and implement of solutions to problems of environmental problems using scientific principles.

Entry requirements
Applications for admission are accepted from candidates with a Master’s degree by research (2-year masters by research) awarded by recognized universities, institutions and degree awarding bodies (in the field of the physical sciences, biological sciences, social sciences or other fields relevant to environmental management and sustainability). 

MPhil Agroforestry and Dryland Conservation

Brief Description
The MPhil. Agroforestry and Dryland Conservation is a two-year programme designed to train graduates who will be relevant in managing land resources in arid and semi-arid lands as well as national development efforts which are in line with a number of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) especially SDG 1, 2, 4, 13 and 15 towards sustainable agriculture and land management. 

Entry requirements
Applications for admission are accepted from:

Applicants should hold First- or Second-Class Honours or postgraduate diploma in the fields of Forestry, Renewable Natural Resources, Land Restoration, Sustainable Land Management, Biological Science, Environmental Science, and other related disciplines obtained from an accredited university. Applicants with Masters non-research in a similar programme may be admitted to a 12-month top-up, leading to the award of an MPhil.
Such applicants shall: 
Submit an official transcript of their academic record with their application. 
Submit two recommendation letters from referees familiar with the applicant’s academic work.
All Applicants must attach a 3–5- page research proposal of the intended area of research.
Admission is open to both national and international applicants.
PhD Agroforestry and Dryland Conservation 

Brief Description 
The PhD Agroforestry and Dryland Conservation is a Four-year programme designed to develop highly-skilled human resource base relevant for augmenting national development efforts in attaining food security, restoring biodiversity, combating desertification and poverty reduction through functional research and policy formulation on issues of sustainable agriculture and land management in arid and semi-arid lands.

Entry requirements 
To be accepted for admission: 

Doctoral applicant must hold a master’s degree by research (2-year masters by research) in the fields of Agroforestry, Forestry, Renewable Natural Resources, Land Restoration, Sustainable Land Management, Biological Science, Soil Science, Soil and Water Conservation, Animal Science, Horticulture, Environmental Science, and other related disciplines obtained from recognized university.
All Applicants must attach a 5–7-page research proposal of the intended area of research
Admission is open to both national and international applicants.

SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING

MPhil/PhD Integrated Water Resource Management

Basic Description
Water is increasingly seen as a key constraint on food production, equivalent to if not more crucial than land scarcity. Irrigated agriculture is already responsible for more than 70% of all water withdrawals (more than 90% of all consumptive use of water) (Cap-Net, 2005). IWRM offers the prospect of greater efficiencies, water conservation and demand management equitably shared among water users, and of increased recycling and reuse of wastewater to supplement new resource development. The programme therefore aims at building capacities at Masters level with a focus on Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM). The programme will receive funding support from the World Bank African Centers of Excellence (ACE) Impact project (2019 – 2023) under the West African Center for Water, Irrigation and Sustainable Agriculture (WACWISA) with the main aim of building capacities of graduates locally and within the West Africa sub-region.

Admission requirement

Master of Philosophy (MPhil) 
Applicants to the Masters programme must hold a Bachelor’s degree (honours) with at least a Second-Class Upper Division in Agricultural Engineering, Civil Engineering, Water Resources Engineering/Management, Agricultural Technology, Soil Science, Natural Resources Management, Mathematics, Physics or related fields. Second Class Lower Division may also be considered for admission after an interview. All applicants shall submit an official academic transcript, copy of certified academic certificate, a statement of interest together with an application letter. A three (3) page maximum proposal shall be submitted during the application process and shall contain a research topic, background, problem statement and justification, objectives, materials and methods and expected results. 

All applicants to the programmes must submit three (3) letters of reference and shall be interviewed.

Doctor of Philosophy (PhD Regular)
For admission into the PhD programme, applicant must have an MPhil/MSc degree or a research-based Master’s degree in a related field of study from a recognized institution. The applicant must submit as part of the application process, an official academic transcript, a certified copy of academic certificates, a five (5) page maximum proposal indicating the research topic, background, problem statement and justification, objectives, materials and methods and expected outcomes.

All applicants to the programme must submit three (3) letters of reference and shall be interviewed.

MPhil/PhD Irrigation and Drainage Engineering

Basic Description
Agricultural Engineering is the area of engineering concerned with the design, construction and improvement of farming equipment and machinery as well as natural resources. Agricultural engineers integrate technology with farming by designing new and improved farming equipment that may work more efficiently or perform new tasks. They design and build agricultural infrastructure such as dams, water reservoirs, warehouses and other structures. The MPhil and PhD Irrigation and Drainage Engineering Programmes have been designed with the aim of producing academically excellent, research and practical oriented professional graduates in Irrigation and Drainage Engineering who can fit into academia, research, industry and private organisations or create their own job modules as consultants upon graduation through effective teaching and learning in a conducive environment as well as the conduct of cutting edge research and field practical under effective supervision.

Master of Philosophy (MPhil.) Programme
The programme targets first degree graduates and industry practitioners whose main aim is to upgrade their research ability, developed their skills in the subject area as well as improve their work efficiency and effectiveness. The Master of Philosophy (MPhil.) programme shall be 24 months (two academic years) of taught course work and a thesis. Students in this programme shall undertake compulsory core course modules in the first year (first and second trimesters and undertake an integrated group assignment in the third trimester). The first year shall be for a period of 12 months and the course work shall include classroom lectures/tutorials and field as well as laboratory practicals. A trimester shall cover a period of 16 weeks. Students shall present seminars every trimester for the period of study and submit a thesis which shall be researched within a period of 12 months during the study period.

Amongst other requirements, for a Master of Philosophy programme, students are mandated to undertake a minimum of 49 credits of course work and thesis.  

Admission requirement
Applicants to the Masters programme must hold a good Bachelor’s degree (honours) with at least a Second-Class Upper Division in Agricultural Engineering, Civil Engineering, Water Resources Engineering, Agricultural Technology, Soil Science or related fields from a recognized Academic Institution in Ghana or outside the country. Second Class Lower Division may also be considered for admission. Applicants shall submit an official academic transcript, copy of academic certificate, a statement of interest together with the application. 

A three (3) page maximum proposal shall be submitted during the application process and shall contain a research topic, background, problem statement and justification, objectives, materials and methods and expected results. All applicants to the programme must submit three (3) letters of reference and shall be interviewed.

Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Programme
The PhD programme shall be by taught course and mainly research-based and shall be supervised by staff with expertise in the area of the thesis. It shall be for a period of four (4) academic years (48 months). Students to be admitted shall have a researched MPhil/MSc degree or its equivalent in the same field or very related academic programmes. Admitted students will be required to have a one-year taught course including elective course modules.  

Students pursuing the PhD programme are mandated to write and defend their thesis topics in the form of proposals. The degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) shall be awarded based on students passing the taught courses and a research component in which, a candidate has made an original and significant contribution to knowledge in the topic/area of research. Students following the programme shall publish at least two (2) research papers in high impact journals as part of the programme. 

Admission requirement
For admission into the PhD programme, applicant must have an MPhil/MSc degree or a research-based Master’s degree in a related field of study from a recognized academic institution in Ghana or outside the country. 

The applicant must submit as part of the application process, an official academic transcript, a copy of academic certificates, a five (5) page maximum proposal indicating the research topic, background, problem statement and justification, objectives, materials and methods and expected results.

All applicants to the programme must submit three (3) letters of reference and shall be interviewed.


FACULTY OF SOCIAL SCIENCES

PROGRAMME: Master of Arts (MA) in Development Sociology

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRAMME: The issues created by the weakening of traditional social structures and the non-consolidation of modernized ones call for in-depth academic knowledge as well as practical abilities in dealing with the new social dynamics. The changes to Ghana's social structure have uncovered new issues that the government must address, including those with poverty, vulnerability, and marginalization. The Master of Arts in Development Sociology program will form one of the basic mechanisms geared towards driving social change and increasing awareness leading to better organization in Ghana. When society senses new and better opportunities for progress, it develops new forms of organization as a result of significant change in social institutions to exploit these new openings successfully. Society's capacity to organize resources to meet challenges and opportunities passes through well-defined stages in the course of not only its development but also how the people with the relevant skills apply the theoretical and practical knowledge in Development Sociology to address the development challenges that have bedeviled Ghana for many years now. Critically unique about the programme is the advantage of the post graduate students will derive from the university “Community Immersion Programme” that is “lived-in-experiences” of students in rural setting.
 AIMS: The post graduate Programme in Development Sociology is unique from other post graduate Sociology programmes offered in the country by other sister Universities. This programme is the first of its kind to be offered in the public Universities in Ghana. This Programme also aims at allowing individuals who are not familiar with the people and communities where they will work and immerse themselves in these settings. This gives them the opportunity to reflect on their assumptions, attitudes, and the knowledge base of their profession and to gain competence. In addition to this, the post graduate students in Development Sociology as part of their practical work will undertake a department project on the field. The programme also aims at training students to engage in scientific research activities, practical knowledge in development sociology and also acquire both theoretical and practical knowledge as well as skills in dealing with problems that are related to the society. To equip students, with the understanding of the origin and development theories of professional Development Sociology across the globe.

ADMISSION: Candidates seeking admissions into the one (1) year postgraduate programme in MA. Development Sociology must possess the following:

Admission is open to both National and International applicants.
An applicant is required to obtain at least a Second Class Lower in an appropriate field of study or its equivalent from any recognized university before being offered admission to pursue MA. Development Sociology.
In all cases however, an oral interview will be conducted to select the qualified students for admission into the MA. Development Sociology 
Further details on admission requirements and academic regulations are available in the UDS Handbook for Graduate Studies (p11-15). Also, the published Regulations for Junior Members Handbook provide further information about rules and regulations within the University environment some of which are relevant for graduate students as well.
Foreign Students Admission
The university values the opportunity for cross-cultural learning that comes with having international students enrolled. Our high reputation for the quality of our research, teaching, and student care services has been boosted by the successful involvement of international students in our courses. We take great satisfaction in attending to each student's unique needs, regardless of their cultural background. International students are eligible to enroll in courses leading to degrees from the University for Development Studies. If a foreign student possesses credentials comparable to those mentioned above, they may be admitted; however, proof of English language proficiency is necessary. The University will also take further steps to verify and authenticate the results or certificate of the foreign applicant. 

PROGRMME: Master of Philosophy (Mphil) in Development Sociology

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRAMME: The transformations within the Ghanaian social structure have unearthed new problems, among others, relating to poverty, vulnerability and marginality that are thrown up for public management. 
The response of society to these challenges in Ghana has not been satisfactory enough, principally due to inadequacy of trained personnel with well-grounded theoretical and practical knowledge to tackle the problems within the emerging Ghanaian context (UNDP, 2021). The Department of Sociology and Social Work in which MPhil development sociology will thus present new vistas for the discipline of development sociology to contribute more effectively to the development discourse and finding practical interventions to mitigate the social challenges that confront Ghana and the rest of Africa and the world. The MPhil in Development Sociology program will form one of the basic mechanisms geared towards driving social change and increasing awareness leading to better organization in Ghana. When society senses new and better opportunities for progress, it develops new forms of organization as a result of significant change in social institutions to exploit these new openings successfully. Critically unique about the programme is the advantage of the post graduate students will derive from the university “Community Immersion’’ Programme that is “lived-in-experiences” of students in rural setting. This allows individuals who are not familiar with the people and communities where they will work immerse themselves in these settings. This gives them the opportunity to reflect on their assumptions, attitudes, and the knowledge base of their profession and to gain competence. At the end of course work students will be made to write a project work. Students will be allowed to write thesis after course work in the first year. Thesis work starts in the second year.
AIMS: The programme aims at providing a unique opportunity for Personnel in Social welfare organizations like the children homes, orphanages and other activities by NGOs, Hospitals, schools whose knowledge in this area are in adequate. The few who are there lack practical and theoretical skills to handle issues relevant to Development Sociology practices. Development Sociology in UDS will help address the inadequacies in skills through practical innovative exposure of students of Master of Philosophy in Development Sociology. The programme aims at training students to engage in scientific research activities, practical knowledge in development sociology and also acquire both theoretical and practical knowledge as well as skills in dealing with problems that are related to the society. Also to provide to provide students the diverse social issues, distinct nature of oppression and discrimination and their implications in the society.

ADMISSION: Candidates seeking admissions into two (2) year a postgraduate programme in MPhil. Development Sociology must possess the following:

Admission is open to both National and International applicants.
An applicant is required to obtain at least a Second Class Lower in an appropriate field of study or its equivalent from any recognized university before being offered admission to pursue MPhil, Development Sociology.
In all cases however, an oral interview will be conducted to select the qualified students for admission into the MPhil Development Sociology 
Further details on admission requirements and academic regulations are available in the UDS Handbook for Graduate Studies (p11-15). Also, the published Regulations for Junior Members Handbook provide further information about rules and regulations within the University environment some of which are relevant for graduate students as well.
Foreign Students Admission
The university values the opportunity for cross-cultural learning that comes with having international students enrolled. Our high reputation for the quality of our research, teaching, and student care services has been boosted by the successful involvement of international students in our courses. We take great satisfaction in attending to each student's unique needs, regardless of their cultural background. International students are eligible to enroll in courses leading to degrees from the University for Development Studies. If a foreign student possesses credentials comparable to those mentioned above, they may be admitted; however, proof of English language proficiency is necessary. The University will also take further steps to verify and authenticate the results or certificate of the foreign applicant. 

PROGRAMME: Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Development Sociology

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRAMME: In order to deal with the new social dynamics, which have been brought about by the weakening of conventional social structures and the non-consolidation of modernized ones, it is necessary to have both in-depth academic knowledge and practical experience. The inadequate skilled professionals in Doctor of Philosophy with solid theoretical and practical expertise to address the issues in the developing Ghanaian environment has been a major element in the society's unsatisfactory response to these concerns in Ghana (UNDP, 2021). The contribution of the population through effective participation in bottom-up policy formulation processes would provide room for interrogation of traditional customary practices that undermine the integrity of individuals in society (GSAA, 2020). The PhD in Development Sociology program will form one of the basic mechanisms geared towards driving social change and increasing awareness leading to better organization in Ghana. When society senses new and better opportunities for progress, it develops new forms of organization as a result of significant change in social institutions to exploit these new openings successfully. Development Sociology is one of the sciences that can withstand the test of time in ensuring that the intended change in Ghana is realized because development requires resources such as capital, technology, and supporting infrastructure to survive. This programme is the first of its kind to be offered in the public Universities in Ghana. There are a number of development sociologists in Ghana, none of them acquired the title through “Community Immersion” Programme blended with academic work but rather, through research and publications.
In addition to this, the post graduate students in Development Sociology as part of their practical work will undertake a department project on the field. They will identify at least one social problem relative to Development Sociology practices, apply their Development Sociology practical research strategies and present a comprehensive report to the department after the field in partial fulfilment for the award of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in Development Sociology and this will be compulsory for all Graduate students in the department. Students are allowed to write thesis after course work in the first year. Thesis work starts in the second year.
AIMS: The programme aims at training students to engage in scientific research activities, practical knowledge in development sociology and also acquire both theoretical and practical knowledge as well as skills in dealing with problems that are related to the society. The graduate students of Development Sociology in the Department of Sociology and Social Work would in the first year offer core courses that would broaden their scope for their content analysis.  The Development workshops and “lived-in-experiences” or ‘’Community Immersion’’ will be multi-disciplinary in approach which allows graduate students to adopt integrated disciplinary approach to problem solving. To provide students the diverse social issues, distinct nature of oppression and discrimination and their implications in the society.

ADMISSION: Candidates seeking admissions into a four (4) year postgraduate programme in PhD. Development Sociology must possess the following:

Admission is open to both National and International applicants.
Students applying for PhD in Development Sociology must possess an MPhil or its equivalent in a relevant area from a recognized   University. 
In all cases however, an oral interview will be conducted to select qualified students for admission into the PhD Development Sociology programme. 
Further details on admission requirements and academic regulations are available in the UDS Handbook for Graduate Studies (p11-20). Also, the published Regulations for Junior Members Handbook provide further information about rules and regulations within the University environment some of which are relevant for graduate students as well.
Foreign Students Admission
The university values the opportunity for cross-cultural learning that comes with having international students enrolled. Our high reputation for the quality of our research, teaching, and student care services has been boosted by the successful involvement of international students in our courses. We take great satisfaction in attending to each student's unique needs, regardless of their cultural background. International students are eligible to enroll in courses leading to degrees from the University for Development Studies. If a foreign student possesses credentials comparable to those mentioned above, they may be admitted; however, proof of English language proficiency is necessary. The University will also take further steps to verify and authenticate the results or certificate of the foreign applicant. 


FACULTY OF PHYSICAL SCIENCES

Post graduate Diploma in Mathematics

The postgraduate diploma (PGD) programme in Mathematics is a sandwich programme offered during the third trimester of the academic year. It is designed to prepare graduates for higher mathematics careers. 

Entry Requirements:
Applicants must hold a first degree with a: 
At least Third-Class Division in mathematics or related discipline.
Or 
Any other degree other than mathematics. 

Master of Science (MSc) Mathematics

The master of science (MSc) programme in mathematics is offered on sandwich mode during the 3rd trimester of the academic year. The programme is design to enable the working class upgrade their knowledge and skills in mathematics whilst working. It prepares students for future careers in research.

Admission Requirements

Applicants must possess a Second-Class Lower Division or better in mathematics or related discipline. Or 
Postgraduate Diploma in Mathematics or related discipline from any accredited tertiary educational institution.
Applicants must submit official transcript of their academic records.
Applicants must submit two referee reports, one of which must be from a former lecturer in the University.
Applicants must pass a graduate selection interview.
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Mathematics

The doctor of philosophy degree (PhD) programme in mathematics is a four (4) year degree programme aimed at equipping graduates with skills and expertise of mathematical research. It provides the theoretical knowledge of mathematics as well as build the research capacity of students to solve the challenging problems confronting industry.  

Admission Requirements
Applicants must possess: 

A master of philosophy (M.Phil.) degree in mathematics or related discipline. 
Submit official transcript of their academic records.
Submit three referee reports, one of which must be from a lecturer in their last University.
Submit a 3–5-page proposal highlighting the research interest 
Pass a graduate selection interview.
PGD Statistics

The PGD Statistic programme is offered on sandwich mode during the 3rd trimester of the academic year. The aim of the programme is to train students with a refined statistical skills useful for industry, as well as provide a good foundation for further studies in statistics.

Admission Requirements
Candidates must possess at least a Third-Class degree in Statistics or Actuarial Science or any related discipline.
Or 
A degree in any discipline from any accredited institution. 
Candidates must pass a selection interview. 

Master of Science (MSc) Statistics

The MSc Statistics programme is offered on sandwich during the third trimester of the academic year.It aims to provide graduates with the required domain expertise in both theoretical and practical knowledge in statistics and also to establish them in a strong and meaningful research skills that will be useful for both academia and industry. 

Admission Requirements
Applicants must possess: 

A bachelor’s degree with at least a second-class lower division in Statistics, Mathematics, Actuarial Science or related discipline. Or
A Postgraduate Diploma (PGD) in Statistics or related discipline. 
Submit an official transcript of academic records.
Submit two (2) referee reports, one of whom must be a lecturer in their former institution.
Pass a selection interview to be organized by the department postgraduate advisory board.
Master of Philosophy (MPhil) Statistics

The MPhil Statistics programme aims at providing graduates with the required domain expertise in both theoretical and practical knowledge in statistics and also equip them with a strong and meaningful research skills that will be useful for both academia and industry. 

Admission Requirements
Applicants must possess:

BSc degree in Statistics, Mathematics, Actuarial Science or related disciplines with a minimum of second-class lower division.
Post Graduate Diploma (PGD) in Statistics or related disciplines  
MSc(taught) in Statistics or related disciplines can be admitted into Level 600. 
Pass a selection interview to be organized by the department.     

Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Statistics

The aim of the programme is to produce quality graduates with diligent research and analytical skills to function effectively in industry, academia and research institution that require the application of high-level Statistical concept to solve problems.

Admission Requirements

MPhil or MSc (research) in Statistics or related field of study. 
Submit an official transcript of academic records.
Submit three reference reports, one of which must be former lecturer of the applicant in the University.  
Submit a proposal of 3-5 pages of intended area of study including a working bibliography.
Satisfy any additional requirements prescribed by the Department/Faculty.

C.   CITY CAMPUS

SCHOOL OF BUSINESS

MBA AND MPA PROGRAMMES 

The MBA/MPA programme has a two-year duration. The lectures are delivered through three (3) streams, with twelve (12) session weekends for each stream. This means there is one-and-a-half year of coursework, a business networking boot camp, two seminar streams and a dissertation. A critical component is a Business and Networking Bootcamp, which brings together our students and some industry players for network building and fostering partnerships and collaborations between our students, entrepreneurs and businesses. In addition, we will prepare you for the professional exams provided by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), ICA from the Institute of Chartered Accountants Ghana, Chartered Institute of Bankers, Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA), Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply, etc. 

MBA Accounting
MBA Finance
MBA Health Administration
MBA Management Information Systems
Master of Public Administration
MBA Procurement and Supply Chain Management
Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MBA programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area unrelated to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MASTER OF SCIENCE 

One-Year MSc and MA Programmes (Sandwich)
MSc Accounting and Finance
MSc Development Finance
MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation
MSc Accounting and Finance

If you want to become a professional accountant, this MSc is the course for you. We have developed this master's course in response to student demand for a higher-level qualification to enhance career prospects and professional development in accounting and finance. The course has a strong practical bias. You will learn how to apply theory to practice, and we will expose you to the profession’s latest thinking, techniques and practices. While you are learning the core elements required of accountancy professionals, we will also prepare you for the professional exams set by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and the ICA qualification from the Institute of Chartered Accountants Ghana.
The MSc Accounting is a sandwich programme delivered during the two third-trimester breaks of the University. This is between July and September.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MSc programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area not related to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MSc Development Finance

MSc Development Finance covers the macro, sectoral, and enterprise levels of financial analysis of current issues as well as knowledge of key financial concepts for designing innovative funding mechanisms for developing and emerging economies. The programme analyses the formal and informal financial sectors, institutional architecture, financial reforms, and strategies to encourage financial inclusion. The utilisation of case studies will demonstrate the MSc. Development Finance's significant emphasis is on practice-oriented learning. Additionally, the curriculum includes a master's dissertation that is focused on the industry. After completing the programme, students will be expected to have a stronger commitment to the public good and the development agenda.
The MSc Development Finance is a sandwich programme delivered during two third-trimester breaks at the University. This is between July and September.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MSc programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area not related to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MSc Leadership and Organisational Development

Today, a manager must be able to demonstrate leadership skills that enable change to occur. This programme gives you the resources you need to comprehend the difficulties of leadership and equips you to take on the role of a development-oriented leader. The essential concerns with leadership and human systems in businesses are examined in the Masters of Science in Leadership and Organizational Development (LOD). Students will learn how to boost an organisation's effectiveness in a constantly changing environment by using information based on behavioural science.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MSc programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area not related to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation

Entrepreneurship and innovation are crucial strategies organisations use to ensure success and gain a competitive advantage in a highly competitive global environment. Our MSc in Entrepreneurship and Innovation programme seeks to give students a thorough grasp of both small and large organisations, their management, and the evolving external environment in which they function and present them with both entrepreneurial and innovation knowledge to thrive in a globally competitive environment.
You will learn to:

Think critically about new venture creation and the innovation process, and reflect on how to become an entrepreneur. 
Generate and implement new business ideas.
Examine the connections between innovation and entrepreneurship and other management disciplines, such as strategy, marketing, organisational change, and product development.
Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MSc programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area unrelated to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MSc Procurement and Supply Chain Management

Our Procurement and Supply Chain Management MSc has been co-designed with senior procurement and supply chain professionals. This postgraduate course will provide you with the specialist knowledge and skills in procurement and supply chain management that you need to further your career in this sector.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MSc programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area not related to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY PROGRAMMES

MPhil Accounting
MPhil Finance 
MPhil Management Information Systems
MPhil Human Resource Management
MPhil Health Services Administration
MPhil Public Administration
MPhil Entrepreneurship and Innovation
MPhil Procurement and Supply Chain Management
MPhil Accounting

With a concentration on teaching and research in the areas of accounting, the Master of Philosophy in Accounting programme strives to develop human resources in accounting. The programme offers an in-depth comprehension and mastery of accounting theories, methods, and practices. The MPhil is a 2-year regular programme.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MPhil programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area unrelated to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MPhil Finance

Through independent and innovative research, the MPhil Finance programme seeks to enhance knowledge in the field of finance. The curriculum focuses on developing the student's skills and knowledge so they can conduct quality research in finance and related fields and professionally address the financial difficulties that face businesses and the financial sector. The programme offers research-driven instruction that helps students build their knowledge and abilities and a strong basis for jobs in finance and those who want to pursue PhD programs. The MPhil is a 2-year regular programme.

Admission Requirements:

Candidates for admission into the MPhil programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area not related to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MPhil Management Information Systems

The Master of Philosophy (MPhil) degree programme in Information Systems (IS) is a research-oriented degree that prepares students for a research and teaching career in universities, research institutions, and governmental or business organisations. The course takes a technology management approach and focuses on a behavioural study of how information technology is managed, designed, and used and how it affects people, businesses, and societies on a socioeconomic level. , students planning to pursue a PhD in information systems at the UDS School of Business should consider enrolling in the MPhil (IS) programme. The MPhil is a 2-year regular programme.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MPhil programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area not related to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MPhil Human Resource Management 

This degree programme is designed to prepare graduates for top-class careers and professions in the field of Human Resource Management (HRM) within the diverse industrial and service sectors. This qualification aims to help students grow as intellectual and professional individuals who can demonstrate independent and unique scientific knowledge in human resource management. The student will also have the chance to demonstrate proficiency in the application of pertinent research methodologies, in the appropriate written and/or oral communication of the research process and findings, and in the opportunity to reflect on the research process and findings.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MPhil programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area not related to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MPhil Health Services Administration

An MPhil (Master of Philosophy) in Health Services Administration is a  specialised two-year postgraduate research program that focuses on providing advanced knowledge and skills related to the management and administration of healthcare services. This program is designed to prepare individuals for leadership roles in healthcare organisations, equipping them with the expertise to navigate the complex landscape of healthcare administration.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MPhil programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area unrelated to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MPhil Public Administration

An MPhil (Master of Philosophy) in Public Administration is a two-year postgraduate research program designed to provide advanced knowledge and skills in the field of public administration and governance. This program is focused on preparing individuals for leadership roles in public and non-profit sectors, emphasising the complexities of public policy, management, and administration.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MPhil programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area unrelated to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MPhil Entrepreneurship and Innovation

The MPhil (Master of Philosophy) in Entrepreneurship and Innovation is a two-year graduate-level program that focuses on developing students' skills and knowledge in the fields of entrepreneurship and innovation. The program combines theoretical knowledge with practical skills to equip students with the necessary tools to identify and create business opportunities, develop innovative ideas, and successfully manage and grow a startup or entrepreneurial venture. Graduates of the MPhil in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program may pursue careers as entrepreneurs, startup founders, innovation consultants, or executives in companies focused on innovation and growth.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MPhil programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area unrelated to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.
MPhil Procurement and Supply Chain Management

An MPhil (Master of Philosophy) in Procurement and Supply Chain Management is an advanced two-year postgraduate program designed to provide in-depth knowledge and skills in the field of procurement, sourcing, and supply chain management. This program typically caters to professionals and graduates seeking to enhance their expertise and career opportunities in the dynamic and strategic realm of procurement and supply chain.

Admission Requirements:
Candidates for admission into the MPhil programme must satisfy the following requirements: 

A good first degree (at least Second-Class Lower) in Commerce, Marketing, Procurement, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Mathematics, Statistics, or any other related degree from a recognised University.  
A good first degree in an area unrelated to business studies from a recognised university with at least 2 years of working experience in a business role.  
Candidate shall be interviewed or be required to take an entrance examination.
Foreign applicants will be assessed based on GTEC’s evaluation of their qualifications.

MODE OF APPLICATION FOR DOMESTIC (GHANAIAN) APPLICANTS

All Ghanaian applicants for the 2026/2027 academic year admissions are required to use the UDS online application portal. The procedure for the online application process is as follows:

Make a payment of Two Hundred and Fifty Ghana Cedis (GHS 250.00) for the UDS E-Voucher at any Stanbic Bank, GCB Bank, Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), National Investment Bank (NIB), Prudential Bank, Zenith Bank, Access Bank and Ecobank branches throughout the country.
The E-Voucher contains the Pin, and Serial Number required in completing the online form. Access the online form by visiting our online admissions portal www.admissions.uds.edu.gh soon after payment
In completing the online form, students will be required to upload their passport size photographs and certificates
A completed form is not considered until it is SUBMITTED after accepting our Data Confirmation Policy. 
Applicants are advised to check thoroughly all details entered before finally submitting their online applications. A form, once submitted, can be viewed, but cannot be edited.
Applicants must print out three copies of the application summary; attach results slips, certificates and all other relevant documents to each form. Three reference letters are also required (at least, two of the referees should be familiar with applicants’ academic work)
Closing Date
Closing date for applications is June 30, 2026. Candidates should note that no applications for sandwich programmes will be accepted after this date (June 30, 2026).

Enquiries
For further enquiries, contact UDS Graduate School by email: Dean_graduateschool@uds.edu.gh or registry_graduateschool@uds.edu.gh 

 

MODE OF APPLICATION FOR FOREIGN APPLICANTS

All Foreign applicants for the 2026/2027 Academic Year admissions are required to use the UDS online application portal. The procedure for the online application process is as follows:

Access the online form for free by emailing international@uds.edu.gh for an E-voucher. 
Visit our online admissions portal at www.admissions.uds.edu.gh soon after receiving the E-voucher. The E-Voucher contains the PIN, and Serial Number required for the completion of the online form.
In completing the online form, applicants will be required to upload their most recent passport size photographs with white background and relevant certificates.  Applicants who use objects instead of their own photographs would be disqualified.
A completed form is not considered until it is SUBMITTED after accepting our Data Confirmation Policy. 
Applicants are advised to check thoroughly all details entered before they finally submit their online applications. 
Closing Date
Closing date for applications is June 30, 2026. Candidates should note that no applications for sandwich programmes will be accepted after this date (June 30, 2026).

Enquiries
For further enquiries, contact UDS Graduate School by email: Dean_graduateschool@uds.edu.gh or registry_graduateschool@uds.edu.gh 

REGISTRAR